receiver/kafkametricsreceiver/README.md, before:

# Kafka Metrics Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fkafkametrics%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fkafkametrics) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fkafkametrics%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fkafkametrics) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=receiver_kafkametrics)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=receiver_kafkametrics&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@dmitryax](https://www.github.com/dmitryax) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Kafka metrics receiver collects kafka metrics (brokers, topics, partitions, consumer groups) from kafka server,
converting into otlp.

## Prerequisites

This receiver supports Kafka versions:
  -  2.X
  -  3.X

## Getting Started

> [!NOTE]
> You can opt-in to use [`franz-go`](https://github.com/twmb/franz-go) client by enabling the feature gate
> `receiver.kafkametricsreceiver.UseFranzGo` when you run the OpenTelemetry Collector. See the following page
> for more details: [Feature Gates](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/featuregate#controlling-gates)

Required settings (no defaults):

- `scrapers`: any combination of the following scrapers can be enabled.
    - `topics`
    - `consumers`
    - `brokers`

Metrics collected by the associated scraper are listed in [metadata.yaml](metadata.yaml)

Optional Settings (with defaults):

- `cluster_alias`: Alias name of the cluster. Adds `kafka.cluster.alias` resource attribute.
- `protocol_version` (default = 2.1.0): Kafka protocol version
- `brokers` (default = localhost:9092): the list of brokers to read from.
- `resolve_canonical_bootstrap_servers_only` (default = false): whether to resolve then reverse-lookup broker IPs during startup.
- `topic_match` (default = ^[^_].*$): regex pattern of topics to filter on metrics collection. The default filter excludes internal topics (starting with `_`).
- `group_match` (default = .*): regex pattern of consumer groups to filter on for metrics.
- `client_id` (default = otel-collector): consumer client id
- `collection_interval` (default = 1m): frequency of metric collection/scraping.
- `initial_delay` (default = `1s`): defines how long this receiver waits before starting.
- `tls`: see [TLS Configuration Settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md) for the full set of available options.
- `auth` (default none)
    - `plain_text` (Deprecated in v0.123.0: use sasl with mechanism set to PLAIN instead.)
        - `username`: The username to use.
        - `password`: The password to use
    - `sasl`
        - `username`: The username to use.
        - `password`: The password to use.
        - `mechanism`: The sasl mechanism to use (SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512, AWS_MSK_IAM_OAUTHBEARER, or PLAIN)
        - `aws_msk`
            - `region`: AWS Region in case of AWS_MSK_IAM_OAUTHBEARER mechanism
    - `tls` ((Deprecated in v0.124.0: configure tls at the top level): this is an alias for tls at the top level.
    - `kerberos`
        - `service_name`: Kerberos service name
        - `realm`: Kerberos realm
        - `use_keytab`:  Use of keytab instead of password, if this is true, keytab file will be used instead of
          password
        - `username`: The Kerberos username used for authenticate with KDC
        - `password`: The Kerberos password used for authenticate with KDC
        - `config_file`: Path to Kerberos configuration. i.e /etc/krb5.conf
        - `keytab_file`: Path to keytab file. i.e /etc/security/kafka.keytab
        - `disable_fast_negotiation`: Disable PA-FX-FAST negotiation (Pre-Authentication Framework - Fast). Some common Kerberos implementations do not support PA-FX-FAST negotiation. This is set to `false` by default.
- `metadata`
  - `full` (default = true): Whether to maintain a full set of metadata. When disabled, the client does not make the initial request to broker at the startup.
  - `retry`
    - `max` (default = 3): The number of retries to get metadata
    - `backoff` (default = 250ms): How long to wait between metadata retries

## Examples:

1) Basic configuration with all scrapers:

```yaml
receivers:
  kafkametrics:
    scrapers:
      - brokers
      - topics
      - consumers
```

2) Configuration with more optional settings:

For this example:
- A non-default broker is specified
- cluster alias is set to "kafka-prod"
- collection interval is 5 secs.
- Kafka protocol version is 3.0.0
- mTLS is configured

```yaml
receivers:
  kafkametrics:
    cluster_alias: kafka-prod
    brokers: ["10.10.10.10:9092"]
    protocol_version: 3.0.0
    scrapers:
      - brokers
      - topics
      - consumers
    tls:
      ca_file: ca.pem
      cert_file: cert.pem
      key_file: key.pem
    collection_interval: 5s
```

Commit message:

[receiver/kafkametrics] Promote receiver.kafkametricsreceiver.UseFranzGo feature gate to beta and move feature gates to metadata.yaml (#44601)
<!--Ex. Fixing a bug - Describe the bug and how this fixes the issue.
Ex. Adding a feature - Explain what this achieves.-->
#### Description

Promote the feature gate `receiver.kafkametricsreceiver.UseFranzGo` to
beta.

We have been using it in Production without any issues, and there are no
issues reported so far.

I also moved the feature gates management to metadata.yaml to be managed
using `mdatagen`

<!-- Issue number (e.g. #1234) or full URL to issue, if applicable. -->
#### Link to tracking issue
Fixes #44600

<!--Describe the documentation added.-->
#### Documentation

Documentation updated for users to know how to opt out.

<!--Please delete paragraphs that you did not use before submitting.-->

---------

Signed-off-by: Paulo Dias <paulodias.gm@gmail.com>

receiver/kafkametricsreceiver/README.md, after:

# Kafka Metrics Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fkafkametrics%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fkafkametrics) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fkafkametrics%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fkafkametrics) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=receiver_kafkametrics)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=receiver_kafkametrics&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@dmitryax](https://www.github.com/dmitryax) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

Kafka metrics receiver collects kafka metrics (brokers, topics, partitions, consumer groups) from kafka server,
converting into otlp.

## Prerequisites

This receiver supports Kafka versions:
  -  2.X
  -  3.X

## Feature gates

See [documentation.md](./documentation.md) for the complete list of feature gates supported by this processor.

Feature gates can be enabled using the `--feature-gates` flag:

```shell
"--feature-gates=<feature-gate>"
```

## Getting Started

> [!NOTE]
> You can opt out of using the [`franz-go`](https://github.com/twmb/franz-go) client by disabling the feature gate
> `receiver.kafkametricsreceiver.UseFranzGo` when you run the OpenTelemetry Collector. See the following page
> for more details: [Feature Gates](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/featuregate#controlling-gates)

Required settings (no defaults):

- `scrapers`: any combination of the following scrapers can be enabled.
    - `topics`
    - `consumers`
    - `brokers`

Metrics collected by the associated scraper are listed in [metadata.yaml](metadata.yaml)

Optional Settings (with defaults):

- `cluster_alias`: Alias name of the cluster. Adds `kafka.cluster.alias` resource attribute.
- `protocol_version` (default = 2.1.0): Kafka protocol version
- `brokers` (default = localhost:9092): the list of brokers to read from.
- `resolve_canonical_bootstrap_servers_only` (default = false): whether to resolve then reverse-lookup broker IPs during startup.
- `topic_match` (default = ^[^_].*$): regex pattern of topics to filter on metrics collection. The default filter excludes internal topics (starting with `_`).
- `group_match` (default = .*): regex pattern of consumer groups to filter on for metrics.
- `client_id` (default = otel-collector): consumer client id
- `collection_interval` (default = 1m): frequency of metric collection/scraping.
- `initial_delay` (default = `1s`): defines how long this receiver waits before starting.
- `tls`: see [TLS Configuration Settings](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/config/configtls/README.md) for the full set of available options.
- `auth` (default none)
    - `plain_text` (Deprecated in v0.123.0: use sasl with mechanism set to PLAIN instead.)
        - `username`: The username to use.
        - `password`: The password to use
    - `sasl`
        - `username`: The username to use.
        - `password`: The password to use.
        - `mechanism`: The sasl mechanism to use (SCRAM-SHA-256, SCRAM-SHA-512, AWS_MSK_IAM_OAUTHBEARER, or PLAIN)
        - `aws_msk`
            - `region`: AWS Region in case of AWS_MSK_IAM_OAUTHBEARER mechanism
    - `tls` ((Deprecated in v0.124.0: configure tls at the top level): this is an alias for tls at the top level.
    - `kerberos`
        - `service_name`: Kerberos service name
        - `realm`: Kerberos realm
        - `use_keytab`:  Use of keytab instead of password, if this is true, keytab file will be used instead of
          password
        - `username`: The Kerberos username used for authenticate with KDC
        - `password`: The Kerberos password used for authenticate with KDC
        - `config_file`: Path to Kerberos configuration. i.e /etc/krb5.conf
        - `keytab_file`: Path to keytab file. i.e /etc/security/kafka.keytab
        - `disable_fast_negotiation`: Disable PA-FX-FAST negotiation (Pre-Authentication Framework - Fast). Some common Kerberos implementations do not support PA-FX-FAST negotiation. This is set to `false` by default.
- `metadata`
  - `full` (default = true): Whether to maintain a full set of metadata. When disabled, the client does not make the initial request to broker at the startup.
  - `retry`
    - `max` (default = 3): The number of retries to get metadata
    - `backoff` (default = 250ms): How long to wait between metadata retries

## Examples:

1) Basic configuration with all scrapers:

```yaml
receivers:
  kafkametrics:
    scrapers:
      - brokers
      - topics
      - consumers
```

2) Configuration with more optional settings:

For this example:
- A non-default broker is specified
- cluster alias is set to "kafka-prod"
- collection interval is 5 secs.
- Kafka protocol version is 3.0.0
- mTLS is configured

```yaml
receivers:
  kafkametrics:
    cluster_alias: kafka-prod
    brokers: ["10.10.10.10:9092"]
    protocol_version: 3.0.0
    scrapers:
      - brokers
      - topics
      - consumers
    tls:
      ca_file: ca.pem
      cert_file: cert.pem
      key_file: key.pem
    collection_interval: 5s
```
