processor/logdedupprocessor/README.md, before:

# Log DeDuplication Processor

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: logs   |
| Distributions | [] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aprocessor%2Flogdedup%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aprocessor%2Flogdedup) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aprocessor%2Flogdedup%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aprocessor%2Flogdedup) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@BinaryFissionGames](https://www.github.com/BinaryFissionGames), [@MikeGoldsmith](https://www.github.com/MikeGoldsmith), [@djaglowski](https://www.github.com/djaglowski) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#alpha
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This processor is used to deduplicate logs by detecting identical logs over a range of time and emitting a single log with the count of logs that were deduplicated.

## How It Works
1. The user configures the log deduplication processor in the desired logs pipeline.
2. If the processor does not provide `conditions`, all logs are considered eligible for aggregation. If the processor does have configured `conditions`, all log entries where at least one of the `conditions` evaluates `true` are considered eligible for aggregation. Eligible identical logs are aggregated over the configured `interval`. Logs are considered identical if they have the same body, resource attributes, severity, and log attributes. Logs that do not match any condition in `conditions` are passed onward in the pipeline without aggregating.
3. After the interval, the processor emits a single log with the count of logs that were deduplicated. The emitted log will have the same body, resource attributes, severity, and log attributes as the original log. The emitted log will also have the following new attributes:

    - `log_count`: The count of logs that were deduplicated over the interval. The name of the attribute is configurable via the `log_count_attribute` parameter.
    - `first_observed_timestamp`: The timestamp of the first log that was observed during the aggregation interval.
    - `last_observed_timestamp`: The timestamp of the last log that was observed during the aggregation interval.

**Note**: The `ObservedTimestamp` and `Timestamp` of the emitted log will be the time that the aggregated log was emitted and will not be the same as the `ObservedTimestamp` and `Timestamp` of the original logs.

## Configuration
| Field               | Type     | Default     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ---                 | ---      | ---         | ---                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| interval            | duration | `10s`       | The interval at which logs are aggregated. The counter will reset after each interval.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| conditions          | []string | `[]`        | A slice of [OTTL] expressions used to evaluate which log records are deduped.  All paths in the [log context] are available to reference. All [converters] are available to use.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| log_count_attribute | string   | `log_count` | The name of the count attribute of deduplicated logs that will be added to the emitted aggregated log.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| include_fields                | []string | `[]`        | Fields to include in duplication matching. Fields can be from the log `body` or `attributes`.  Nested fields must be `.` delimited. If a field contains a `.` it can be escaped by using a `\`.  This option is **mutually exclusive** with `exclude_fields`. See [example config](#example-config-with-deduplication-key).
| timezone            | string   | `UTC`       | The timezone of the `first_observed_timestamp` and `last_observed_timestamp` timestamps on the emitted aggregated log. The available locations depend on the local IANA Time Zone database. [This page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) contains many examples, such as `America/New_York`.                                                                                                                               |
| exclude_fields      | []string | `[]`        | Fields to exclude from duplication matching. Fields can be excluded from the log `body` or `attributes`. These fields will not be present in the emitted aggregated log. Nested fields must be `.` delimited. This option is `mutually exclusive` with `include_fields`. If a field contains a `.` it can be escaped by using a `\` see [example config](#example-config-with-excluded-fields).<br><br>**Note**: The entire `body` cannot be excluded. If the body is a map then fields within it can be excluded. |

[OTTL]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/v0.109.0/pkg/ottl#readme
[converters]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/v0.109.0/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs/README.md#converters
[log context]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/v0.109.0/pkg/ottl/contexts/ottllog/README.md

### Example Config
The following config is an example configuration for the log deduplication processor. It is configured with an aggregation interval of `60 seconds`, a timezone of `America/Los_Angeles`, and a log count attribute of `dedup_count`. It has no fields being excluded.
```yaml
receivers:
    filelog:
        include: [./example/*.log]
processors:
    logdedup:
        interval: 60s
        log_count_attribute: dedup_count
        timezone: 'America/Los_Angeles'
exporters:
    googlecloud:

service:
    pipelines:
        logs:
            receivers: [filelog]
            processors: [logdedup]
            exporters: [googlecloud]
```

### Example Config with Excluded Fields
The following config is an example configuration that excludes the following fields from being considered when searching for duplicate logs:

- `timestamp` field from the body
- `host.name` field from attributes
- `ip` nested attribute inside a map attribute named `src`

```yaml
receivers:
    filelog:
        include: [./example/*.log]
processors:
    logdedup:
        exclude_fields:
          - body.timestamp
          - attributes.host\.name
          - attributes.src.ip
exporters:
    googlecloud:

service:
    pipelines:
        logs:
            receivers: [filelog]
            processors: [logdedup]
            exporters: [googlecloud]
```

### Example Config with Include Fields
This example demonstrates a configuration where deduplication is applied to telemetry based on specified fields. Only logs with the same values for the fields defined in the `include_fields` parameter are deduplicated:

```yaml
receivers:
    filelog:
        include: [./example/*.log]
processors:
    logdedup:
        include_fields:
          - attributes.id
          - attributes.name
        interval: 60s
        log_count_attribute: dedup_count
        timezone: 'America/Los_Angeles'
exporters:
    googlecloud:

service:
    pipelines:
        logs:
            receivers: [filelog]
            processors: [logdedup]
            exporters: [googlecloud]
```

### Example Config with Conditions
The following config is an example configuration that only performs the deduping process on telemetry where Attribute `ID` equals `1` OR where Resource Attribute `service.name` equals `my-service`:

```yaml
receivers:
    filelog:
        include: [./example/*.log]
processors:
    logdedup:
        conditions:
            - attributes["ID"] == 1
            - resource.attributes["service.name"] == "my-service"
        interval: 60s
        log_count_attribute: dedup_count
        timezone: 'America/Los_Angeles'
exporters:
    googlecloud:

service:
    pipelines:
        logs:
            receivers: [filelog]
            processors: [logdedup]
            exporters: [googlecloud]
```

Commit message:

[chore] Add display name to logdedupprocessor (#46033)
**Description**

This module was missing the `processor/logdedupprocessor/doc.go` file,
so `make generate` wasn't working for it, and so it was out of date. I
added the doc.go file and then ran the generation, and that's what
updated the rest of the files.

The other change is updating the metadata.yaml file to use the new
[display_name](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/pull/14115)
and description fields.

Related to
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/issues/14114
and https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/pull/14400

Continuation from #45537 #45554 #45599 #45647 #45722 #45883 #45950

processor/logdedupprocessor/README.md, after:

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
# Log DeDuplication Processor

The Log DeDuplication Processor is used to deduplicate logs by detecting identical logs over a range of time and
emitting a single log with the count of logs that were deduplicated.


| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [k8s] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aprocessor%2Flogdedup%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aprocessor%2Flogdedup) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aprocessor%2Flogdedup%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aprocessor%2Flogdedup) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=processor_logdedup)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=processor_logdedup&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@MikeGoldsmith](https://www.github.com/MikeGoldsmith) |
| Emeritus      | [@djaglowski](https://www.github.com/djaglowski) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[k8s]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-k8s
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## How It Works
1. The user configures the log deduplication processor in the desired logs pipeline.
2. If the processor does not provide `conditions`, all logs are considered eligible for aggregation. If the processor does have configured `conditions`, all log entries where at least one of the `conditions` evaluates `true` are considered eligible for aggregation. Eligible identical logs are aggregated over the configured `interval`. Logs are considered identical if they have the same body, resource attributes, severity, and log attributes. Logs that do not match any condition in `conditions` are passed onward in the pipeline without aggregating.
3. After the interval, the processor emits a single log with the count of logs that were deduplicated. The emitted log will have the same body, resource attributes, severity, and log attributes as the original log. The emitted log will also have the following new attributes:

    - `log_count`: The count of logs that were deduplicated over the interval. The name of the attribute is configurable via the `log_count_attribute` parameter.
    - `first_observed_timestamp`: The timestamp of the first log that was observed during the aggregation interval.
    - `last_observed_timestamp`: The timestamp of the last log that was observed during the aggregation interval.

**Note**: The `ObservedTimestamp` and `Timestamp` of the emitted log will be the time that the aggregated log was emitted and will not be the same as the `ObservedTimestamp` and `Timestamp` of the original logs.

## Configuration
| Field               | Type     | Default     | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| ---                 | ---      | ---         | ---                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     |
| interval            | duration | `10s`       | The interval at which logs are aggregated. The counter will reset after each interval.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| conditions          | []string | `[]`        | A slice of [OTTL] expressions used to evaluate which log records are deduped.  All paths in the [log context] are available to reference. All [converters] are available to use.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| log_count_attribute | string   | `log_count` | The name of the count attribute of deduplicated logs that will be added to the emitted aggregated log.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| include_fields                | []string | `[]`        | Fields to include in duplication matching. Fields can be from the log `body` or `attributes`.  Nested fields must be `.` delimited. If a field contains a `.` it can be escaped by using a `\`.  This option is **mutually exclusive** with `exclude_fields`. See [example config](#example-config-with-deduplication-key).
| timezone            | string   | `UTC`       | The timezone of the `first_observed_timestamp` and `last_observed_timestamp` timestamps on the emitted aggregated log. The available locations depend on the local IANA Time Zone database. [This page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) contains many examples, such as `America/New_York`.                                                                                                                               |
| exclude_fields      | []string | `[]`        | Fields to exclude from duplication matching. Fields can be excluded from the log `body` or `attributes`. These fields will not be present in the emitted aggregated log. Nested fields must be `.` delimited. This option is `mutually exclusive` with `include_fields`. If a field contains a `.` it can be escaped by using a `\` see [example config](#example-config-with-excluded-fields).<br><br>**Note**: The entire `body` cannot be excluded. If the body is a map then fields within it can be excluded. |

[OTTL]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/v0.109.0/pkg/ottl#readme
[converters]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/v0.109.0/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs/README.md#converters
[log context]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/v0.109.0/pkg/ottl/contexts/ottllog/README.md

### Example Config
The following config is an example configuration for the log deduplication processor. It is configured with an aggregation interval of `60 seconds`, a timezone of `America/Los_Angeles`, and a log count attribute of `dedup_count`. It has no fields being excluded.
```yaml
receivers:
    filelog:
        include: [./example/*.log]
processors:
    logdedup:
        interval: 60s
        log_count_attribute: dedup_count
        timezone: 'America/Los_Angeles'
exporters:
    googlecloud:

service:
    pipelines:
        logs:
            receivers: [filelog]
            processors: [logdedup]
            exporters: [googlecloud]
```

### Example Config with Excluded Fields
The following config is an example configuration that excludes the following fields from being considered when searching for duplicate logs:

- `timestamp` field from the body
- `host.name` field from attributes
- `ip` nested attribute inside a map attribute named `src`

```yaml
receivers:
    filelog:
        include: [./example/*.log]
processors:
    logdedup:
        exclude_fields:
          - body.timestamp
          - attributes.host\.name
          - attributes.src.ip
exporters:
    googlecloud:

service:
    pipelines:
        logs:
            receivers: [filelog]
            processors: [logdedup]
            exporters: [googlecloud]
```

### Example Config with Include Fields
This example demonstrates a configuration where deduplication is applied to telemetry based on specified fields. Only logs with the same values for the fields defined in the `include_fields` parameter are deduplicated:

```yaml
receivers:
    filelog:
        include: [./example/*.log]
processors:
    logdedup:
        include_fields:
          - attributes.id
          - attributes.name
        interval: 60s
        log_count_attribute: dedup_count
        timezone: 'America/Los_Angeles'
exporters:
    googlecloud:

service:
    pipelines:
        logs:
            receivers: [filelog]
            processors: [logdedup]
            exporters: [googlecloud]
```

### Example Config with Conditions
The following config is an example configuration that only performs the deduping process on telemetry where Attribute `ID` equals `1` OR where Resource Attribute `service.name` equals `my-service`:

```yaml
receivers:
    filelog:
        include: [./example/*.log]
processors:
    logdedup:
        conditions:
            - attributes["ID"] == 1
            - resource.attributes["service.name"] == "my-service"
        interval: 60s
        log_count_attribute: dedup_count
        timezone: 'America/Los_Angeles'
exporters:
    googlecloud:

service:
    pipelines:
        logs:
            receivers: [filelog]
            processors: [logdedup]
            exporters: [googlecloud]
```
