CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

If you would like to contribute please read OpenTelemetry core Collector [contributing
guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
before you begin your work with the contrib Collector.

## Local Testing

To manually test your changes, follow these steps to build and run the contrib
Collector locally. Ensure that you execute these commands from the root of the 
repository:

1. Build the Collector:

  ```shell
  make otelcontribcol
  ```

2. Run the contrib Collector with a local configuration file:

  ```shell
  ./bin/otelcontribcol_<os>_<arch> --config otel-config.yaml
  ```

  The actual name of the binary will depend on your platform. For example, on Linux x64, use `./bin/otelcontribcol_linux_amd64`.

Replace `otel-config.yaml` with the appropriate configuration file as needed.

3. Verify that your changes are reflected in the contrib Collector's behavior by
   testing it against the provided configuration.

4. Lint your changes:

 - For the entire project:
  ```shell
  make golint
  ```

 - For specific components (e.g., Elasticsearch exporter):
  ```shell
  cd exporter/elasticsearchexporter/
  make lint
  ```

5. Run the unit tests:

 - Run tests for the whole project from the project root:
  ```shell
  make gotest
  ```
 - Alternatively, run tests for the affected components. For example, to run the Elasticsearch exporter tests:
  ```shell
  cd exporter/elasticsearchexporter/
  make test
  ```

## Changelog

### Overview

There are two auto generated Changelogs for this repository:

- `CHANGELOG.md` is intended for users of the collector and lists changes that affect the behavior of the collector.
- `CHANGELOG-API.md` is intended for developers who are importing packages from the collector codebase.

They are autogenerated from `.yaml` files in the `./.chloggen` directory.

### Adding a Changelog Entry

1. Create an entry file using `make chlog-new`. This generates a file based on your current branch (e.g. `./.chloggen/my-branch.yaml`)
2. Fill in all fields in the new file
3. Run `make chlog-validate` to ensure the new file is valid
4. Commit and push the file

During the collector release process, all `./chloggen/*.yaml` files are transcribed into `CHANGELOG.md` and `CHANGELOG-API.md` and then deleted.

### When to add a Changelog Entry

Pull requests that contain user-facing changes will require a changelog entry. Keep in mind the following types of users:
1. Those who are consuming the telemetry exported from the collector
2. Those who are deploying or otherwise managing the collector or its configuration
3. Those who are depending on APIs exported from collector packages
4. Those who are contributing to the repository

Changes that affect the first two groups should be noted in `CHANGELOG.md`. Changes that affect the third or fourth groups should be noted in `CHANGELOG-API.md`.

If a changelog entry is not required, start your pull request title with `[chore]`, or ask a maintainer or approver will add the `Skip Changelog` label to the pull request.

**Examples**

Changelog entry required:
- Changes to the configuration of the collector or any component
- Changes to the telemetry emitted from and/or processed by the collector
- Changes to the prerequisites or assumptions for running a collector
- Changes to an API exported by a collector package
- Meaningful changes to the performance of the collector

Judgement call:
- Major changes to documentation
- Major changes to tests or test frameworks
- Changes to developer tooling in the repo

No changelog entry:
- Typical documentation updates
- Refactorings with no meaningful change in functionality
- Most changes to tests
- Chores, such as enabling linters, or minor changes to the CI process

## Pull-requests

### Title guidelines

The title for your pull-request should contain the component type and name in brackets, plus a short statement for your
change. For instance:

    [processor/tailsampling] fix AND policy

### Description guidelines

When linking to an open issue, if your PR is meant to close said issue, please prefix your issue with one of the
following keywords: `Resolves`, `Fixes`, or `Closes`. More information on this functionality (and more keyword options) can be found
[here](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue#linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue-using-a-keyword).
This will automatically close the issue once your PR has been merged.


## Issue Triaging

See [issue-triaging.md](./issue-triaging.md) for more information on the issue triaging process.

### Adding Labels via Comments

In order to facilitate proper label usage and to empower Code Owners, you are able to add labels to issues via comments. To add a label through a comment, post a new comment on an issue starting with `/label`, followed by a space-separated list of your desired labels. Supported labels come from the table below, or correspond to a component defined in the [CODEOWNERS file](.github/CODEOWNERS).

The following general labels are supported:

| Label                     | Label in Comment          |
|---------------------------|---------------------------|
| `arm64`                   | `arm64`                   |
| `good first issue`        | `good-first-issue`        |
| `help wanted`             | `help-wanted`             |
| `discussion needed`       | `discussion-needed`       |
| `needs triage`            | `needs-triage`            |
| `os:mac`                  | `os:mac`                  |
| `os:windows`              | `os:windows`              |
| `waiting for author`      | `waiting-for-author`      |
| `waiting-for-code-owners` | `waiting-for-code-owners` |
| `bug`                     | `bug`                     |
| `priority:p0`             | `priority:p0`             |
| `priority:p1`             | `priority:p1`             |
| `priority:p2`             | `priority:p2`             |
| `priority:p3`             | `priority:p3`             |
| `Stale`                   | `stale`                   |
| `never stale`             | `never-stale`             |
| `Skip Changelog`          | `skip-changelog`          |

To delete a label, prepend the label with `-`. Note that you must make a new comment to modify labels; you cannot edit an existing comment.

Example label comment:

```
/label receiver/prometheus help-wanted -exporter/prometheus
```

### Rerunning Failed Workflows

PR authors can rerun failed GitHub Actions workflows by commenting `/rerun` on the pull request. This will automatically rerun all failed workflow runs for the PR's latest commit.

Example rerun comment:

```
/rerun
```

## Portable Code

In order to ensure compatibility with different operating systems, code should be portable. Below are some guidelines to follow when writing portable code:

* Avoid using platform-specific libraries, features etc. Please opt for portable multi-platform solutions. 

* Avoid hard-coding platform-specific values. Use environment variables or configuration files for storing platform-specific values.

    For example, avoid using hard-coded file path
    ```
    filePath := "C:\Users\Bob\Documents\sampleData.csv"
    ```

    Instead environment variable or configuration file can be used.
    ```
    filePath := os.Getenv("DATA_FILE_PATH")
    ```
    or
    ```
    filePath := Configuration.Get("data_file_path")
    ```

* Be mindful of 
  - Standard file systems and file paths such as forward slashes (/) instead of backward slashes (\\) in Windows. Use the [`path/filepath` package](https://pkg.go.dev/path/filepath) when working with filepaths. 
  - Consistent line ending formats such as Unix (LF) or Windows (CRLF).

* Test your implementation thoroughly on different platforms if possible and fix any issues. 

With above guidelines, you can write code that is more portable and easier to maintain across different platforms. 

## Donating New Components

See the ['Donating new components' document](docs/new-components.md).

## Semantic Conventions compatibility

When introducing new metrics, attributes or entity attributes to components, ensure that
[Semantic Conventions' compatibility guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/coding-guidelines.md#semantic-conventions-compatibility)
are taken into account.

## Adding metrics to existing receivers
Following these steps for contributing additional metrics to existing receivers.
 - Read instructions [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#fork) on how to
   fork, build and create PRs. The only difference is to change repository name from `opentelemetry-collector` to `opentelemetry-collector-contrib`
 - Edit `metadata.yaml` of your metrics receiver to add new metrics, e.g.: `redisreceiver/metadata.yaml`
 - To generate new metrics on top of this updated YAML file.
   - Run `cd receiver/redisreceiver`
   - Run `go generate ./...`
- Review the changed files and merge the changes into your forked repo.
- Create PR from Github web console following the instructions above.

## General Recommendations
Below are some recommendations that apply to typical components. These are not rigid rules and there are exceptions but
in general try to follow them.

- Avoid introducing batching, retries or worker pools directly on receivers and exporters. Typically, these are general
  cases that can be better handled via processors (that also can be reused by other receivers and exporters).
- When implementing exporters try to leverage the exporter helpers from the core repo, see [exporterhelper
  package](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/exporterhelper). This will
  ensure that the exporter provides [zPages](https://opencensus.io/zpages/) and a standard set of metrics.
- `replace` statements in `go.mod` files can be automatically inserted by running `make crosslink`. For more information
  on the `crosslink` tool see the README [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-build-tools/tree/main/crosslink).

## Membership, Roles, and Responsibilities

### Membership levels

See the [OpenTelemetry membership guide](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/guides/contributor/membership.md) for information on how to become a member of the OpenTelemetry organization and the different roles available. In addition to the roles listed there we also have a Collector-specific role: code owners.

### Becoming a Code Owner

A Code Owner is responsible for a component within Collector Contrib, as indicated by the [CODEOWNERS file](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/.github/CODEOWNERS). That responsibility includes maintaining the component, triaging and responding to issues, and reviewing pull requests.

Sometimes a component may be in need of a new or additional Code Owner. A few reasons this situation may arise would be:

- The existing Code Owners are actively looking for more help.
- A previous Code Owner stepped down.
- An existing Code Owner has become unresponsive. See [unmaintained stability status](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector#unmaintained).
- The component was never assigned a Code Owner.

Code Ownership does not have to be a full-time job. If you can find a couple hours to help out on a recurring basis, please consider pursuing Code Ownership.

#### Requirements

If you would like to help and become a Code Owner you must meet the following requirements:

1. [Be a member of the OpenTelemetry organization.](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/guides/contributor/membership.md#member)
2. (Code Owner Discretion) It is best to have resolved an issue related to the component, contributed directly to the component, and/or review component PRs. How much interaction with the component is required before becoming a Code Owner is up to any existing Code Owners.

Code Ownership is ultimately up to the judgement of the existing Code Owners and Collector Contrib Maintainers. Meeting the above requirements is not a guarantee to be granted Code Ownership.

#### How to become a Code Owner

To become a Code Owner, open a PR with the following changes:

1. Add your GitHub username to the active codeowners entry in the component's `metadata.yaml` file.
2. Run the command `make update-codeowners`.
      * Note: A GitHub [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens) must be configured for this command to work.
      * If this command is unsuccessful, manually update the component's row in the [CODEOWNERS](.github/CODEOWNERS) file, and then run `make generate` to regenerate the component's README header.

Be sure to tag the existing Code Owners, if any, within the PR to ensure they receive a notification.

### Emeritus roles

Contributors who are unable to meet the responsibilities of their role are encouraged to move to [emeritus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/guides/contributor/membership.md#emeritus-maintainerapprovertriager). In case of long temporary absences, contributors are encouraged to let maintainers know on the CNCF Slack (e.g. on the #otel-collector-dev channel or privately via DM) and to mark themselves as 'Busy' on Github.

In the event that a contributor becomes inactive without prior notice, the maintainers will attempt to contact the contributor via both Github and the CNCF Slack to confirm their status. After two weeks, if the contributor is an approver or maintainer, they may be removed from the Github review auto-assignment.

If the contributor does not respond within a period of two months, they may be moved to emeritus status at the discretion of the maintainers, following a majority vote among the maintainers (possibly excluding the contributor in question).

## Makefile Guidelines

When adding or modifying the `Makefile`'s in this repository, consider the following design guidelines.

Make targets are organized according to whether they apply to the entire repository, or only to an individual module.
The [Makefile](./Makefile) SHOULD contain "repo-level" targets. (i.e. targets that apply to the entire repo.)
Likewise, `Makefile.Common` SHOULD contain "module-level" targets. (i.e. targets that apply to one module at a time.)
Each module should have a `Makefile` at its root that includes `Makefile.Common`.

### Module-level targets

Module-level targets SHOULD NOT act on nested modules. For example, running `make lint` at the root of the repo will
*only* evaluate code that is part of the `go.opentelemetry.io/collector` module. This excludes nested modules such as
`go.opentelemetry.io/collector/component`.

Each module-level target SHOULD have a corresponding repo-level target. For example, `make golint` will run `make lint`
in each module. In this way, the entire repository is covered. The root `Makefile` contains some "for each module" targets
that can wrap a module-level target into a repo-level target.

### Repo-level targets

Whenever reasonable, targets SHOULD be implemented as module-level targets (and wrapped with a repo-level target).
However, there are many valid justifications for implementing a standalone repo-level target.

1. The target naturally applies to the repo as a whole. (e.g. Building the collector.)
2. Interaction between modules would be problematic.
3. A necessary tool does not provide a mechanism for scoping its application. (e.g. `porto` cannot be limited to a specific module.)
4. The "for each module" pattern would result in incomplete coverage of the codebase. (e.g. A target that scans all file, not just `.go` files.)

### Default targets

The default module-level target (i.e. running `make` in the context of an individual module), should run a substantial set of module-level
targets for an individual module. Ideally, this would include *all* module-level targets, but exceptions should be made if a particular
target would result in unacceptable latency in the local development loop.

The default repo-level target (i.e. running `make` at the root of the repo) should meaningfully validate the entire repo. This should include
running the default common target for each module as well as additional repo-level targets.

Commit message:

[chore] Clarify procedures for moving code owners to emeritus status (#45874)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

If you would like to contribute please read OpenTelemetry core Collector [contributing
guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
before you begin your work with the contrib Collector.

## Local Testing

To manually test your changes, follow these steps to build and run the contrib
Collector locally. Ensure that you execute these commands from the root of the 
repository:

1. Build the Collector:

  ```shell
  make otelcontribcol
  ```

2. Run the contrib Collector with a local configuration file:

  ```shell
  ./bin/otelcontribcol_<os>_<arch> --config otel-config.yaml
  ```

  The actual name of the binary will depend on your platform. For example, on Linux x64, use `./bin/otelcontribcol_linux_amd64`.

Replace `otel-config.yaml` with the appropriate configuration file as needed.

3. Verify that your changes are reflected in the contrib Collector's behavior by
   testing it against the provided configuration.

4. Lint your changes:

 - For the entire project:
  ```shell
  make golint
  ```

 - For specific components (e.g., Elasticsearch exporter):
  ```shell
  cd exporter/elasticsearchexporter/
  make lint
  ```

5. Run the unit tests:

 - Run tests for the whole project from the project root:
  ```shell
  make gotest
  ```
 - Alternatively, run tests for the affected components. For example, to run the Elasticsearch exporter tests:
  ```shell
  cd exporter/elasticsearchexporter/
  make test
  ```

## Changelog

### Overview

There are two auto generated Changelogs for this repository:

- `CHANGELOG.md` is intended for users of the collector and lists changes that affect the behavior of the collector.
- `CHANGELOG-API.md` is intended for developers who are importing packages from the collector codebase.

They are autogenerated from `.yaml` files in the `./.chloggen` directory.

### Adding a Changelog Entry

1. Create an entry file using `make chlog-new`. This generates a file based on your current branch (e.g. `./.chloggen/my-branch.yaml`)
2. Fill in all fields in the new file
3. Run `make chlog-validate` to ensure the new file is valid
4. Commit and push the file

During the collector release process, all `./chloggen/*.yaml` files are transcribed into `CHANGELOG.md` and `CHANGELOG-API.md` and then deleted.

### When to add a Changelog Entry

Pull requests that contain user-facing changes will require a changelog entry. Keep in mind the following types of users:
1. Those who are consuming the telemetry exported from the collector
2. Those who are deploying or otherwise managing the collector or its configuration
3. Those who are depending on APIs exported from collector packages
4. Those who are contributing to the repository

Changes that affect the first two groups should be noted in `CHANGELOG.md`. Changes that affect the third or fourth groups should be noted in `CHANGELOG-API.md`.

If a changelog entry is not required, start your pull request title with `[chore]`, or ask a maintainer or approver will add the `Skip Changelog` label to the pull request.

**Examples**

Changelog entry required:
- Changes to the configuration of the collector or any component
- Changes to the telemetry emitted from and/or processed by the collector
- Changes to the prerequisites or assumptions for running a collector
- Changes to an API exported by a collector package
- Meaningful changes to the performance of the collector

Judgement call:
- Major changes to documentation
- Major changes to tests or test frameworks
- Changes to developer tooling in the repo

No changelog entry:
- Typical documentation updates
- Refactorings with no meaningful change in functionality
- Most changes to tests
- Chores, such as enabling linters, or minor changes to the CI process

## Pull-requests

### Title guidelines

The title for your pull-request should contain the component type and name in brackets, plus a short statement for your
change. For instance:

    [processor/tailsampling] fix AND policy

### Description guidelines

When linking to an open issue, if your PR is meant to close said issue, please prefix your issue with one of the
following keywords: `Resolves`, `Fixes`, or `Closes`. More information on this functionality (and more keyword options) can be found
[here](https://docs.github.com/en/issues/tracking-your-work-with-issues/linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue#linking-a-pull-request-to-an-issue-using-a-keyword).
This will automatically close the issue once your PR has been merged.


## Issue Triaging

See [issue-triaging.md](./issue-triaging.md) for more information on the issue triaging process.

### Adding Labels via Comments

In order to facilitate proper label usage and to empower Code Owners, you are able to add labels to issues via comments. To add a label through a comment, post a new comment on an issue starting with `/label`, followed by a space-separated list of your desired labels. Supported labels come from the table below, or correspond to a component defined in the [CODEOWNERS file](.github/CODEOWNERS).

The following general labels are supported:

| Label                     | Label in Comment          |
|---------------------------|---------------------------|
| `arm64`                   | `arm64`                   |
| `good first issue`        | `good-first-issue`        |
| `help wanted`             | `help-wanted`             |
| `discussion needed`       | `discussion-needed`       |
| `needs triage`            | `needs-triage`            |
| `os:mac`                  | `os:mac`                  |
| `os:windows`              | `os:windows`              |
| `waiting for author`      | `waiting-for-author`      |
| `waiting-for-code-owners` | `waiting-for-code-owners` |
| `bug`                     | `bug`                     |
| `priority:p0`             | `priority:p0`             |
| `priority:p1`             | `priority:p1`             |
| `priority:p2`             | `priority:p2`             |
| `priority:p3`             | `priority:p3`             |
| `Stale`                   | `stale`                   |
| `never stale`             | `never-stale`             |
| `Skip Changelog`          | `skip-changelog`          |

To delete a label, prepend the label with `-`. Note that you must make a new comment to modify labels; you cannot edit an existing comment.

Example label comment:

```
/label receiver/prometheus help-wanted -exporter/prometheus
```

### Rerunning Failed Workflows

PR authors can rerun failed GitHub Actions workflows by commenting `/rerun` on the pull request. This will automatically rerun all failed workflow runs for the PR's latest commit.

Example rerun comment:

```
/rerun
```

## Portable Code

In order to ensure compatibility with different operating systems, code should be portable. Below are some guidelines to follow when writing portable code:

* Avoid using platform-specific libraries, features etc. Please opt for portable multi-platform solutions. 

* Avoid hard-coding platform-specific values. Use environment variables or configuration files for storing platform-specific values.

    For example, avoid using hard-coded file path
    ```
    filePath := "C:\Users\Bob\Documents\sampleData.csv"
    ```

    Instead environment variable or configuration file can be used.
    ```
    filePath := os.Getenv("DATA_FILE_PATH")
    ```
    or
    ```
    filePath := Configuration.Get("data_file_path")
    ```

* Be mindful of 
  - Standard file systems and file paths such as forward slashes (/) instead of backward slashes (\\) in Windows. Use the [`path/filepath` package](https://pkg.go.dev/path/filepath) when working with filepaths. 
  - Consistent line ending formats such as Unix (LF) or Windows (CRLF).

* Test your implementation thoroughly on different platforms if possible and fix any issues. 

With above guidelines, you can write code that is more portable and easier to maintain across different platforms. 

## Donating New Components

See the ['Donating new components' document](docs/new-components.md).

## Semantic Conventions compatibility

When introducing new metrics, attributes or entity attributes to components, ensure that
[Semantic Conventions' compatibility guidelines](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/coding-guidelines.md#semantic-conventions-compatibility)
are taken into account.

## Adding metrics to existing receivers
Following these steps for contributing additional metrics to existing receivers.
 - Read instructions [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#fork) on how to
   fork, build and create PRs. The only difference is to change repository name from `opentelemetry-collector` to `opentelemetry-collector-contrib`
 - Edit `metadata.yaml` of your metrics receiver to add new metrics, e.g.: `redisreceiver/metadata.yaml`
 - To generate new metrics on top of this updated YAML file.
   - Run `cd receiver/redisreceiver`
   - Run `go generate ./...`
- Review the changed files and merge the changes into your forked repo.
- Create PR from Github web console following the instructions above.

## General Recommendations
Below are some recommendations that apply to typical components. These are not rigid rules and there are exceptions but
in general try to follow them.

- Avoid introducing batching, retries or worker pools directly on receivers and exporters. Typically, these are general
  cases that can be better handled via processors (that also can be reused by other receivers and exporters).
- When implementing exporters try to leverage the exporter helpers from the core repo, see [exporterhelper
  package](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/exporterhelper). This will
  ensure that the exporter provides [zPages](https://opencensus.io/zpages/) and a standard set of metrics.
- `replace` statements in `go.mod` files can be automatically inserted by running `make crosslink`. For more information
  on the `crosslink` tool see the README [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-go-build-tools/tree/main/crosslink).

## Membership, Roles, and Responsibilities

### Membership levels

See the [OpenTelemetry membership guide](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/guides/contributor/membership.md) for information on how to become a member of the OpenTelemetry organization and the different roles available. In addition to the roles listed there we also have a Collector-specific role: code owners.

### Becoming a Code Owner

A Code Owner is responsible for a component within Collector Contrib, as indicated by the [CODEOWNERS file](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/.github/CODEOWNERS). That responsibility includes maintaining the component, triaging and responding to issues, and reviewing pull requests.

Sometimes a component may be in need of a new or additional Code Owner. A few reasons this situation may arise would be:

- The existing Code Owners are actively looking for more help.
- A previous Code Owner stepped down.
- An existing Code Owner has become unresponsive.

Code Ownership does not have to be a full-time job. If you can find a couple hours to help out on a recurring basis, please consider pursuing Code Ownership.

#### Requirements

If you would like to help and become a Code Owner you must meet the following requirements:

1. [Be a member of the OpenTelemetry organization.](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/guides/contributor/membership.md#member)
2. (Code Owner Discretion) It is best to have resolved an issue related to the component, contributed directly to the component, and/or review component PRs. How much interaction with the component is required before becoming a Code Owner is up to any existing Code Owners.

Code Ownership is ultimately up to the judgement of the existing Code Owners and Collector Contrib Maintainers. Meeting the above requirements is not a guarantee to be granted Code Ownership.

#### How to become a Code Owner

To become a Code Owner, open a PR with the following changes:

1. Add your GitHub username to the active codeowners entry in the component's `metadata.yaml` file.
2. Run the command `make update-codeowners`.
      * Note: A GitHub [personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/managing-your-personal-access-tokens) must be configured for this command to work.
      * If this command is unsuccessful, manually update the component's row in the [CODEOWNERS](.github/CODEOWNERS) file, and then run `make generate` to regenerate the component's README header.

Be sure to tag the existing Code Owners, if any, within the PR to ensure they receive a notification.

### Emeritus roles

Contributors who are unable to meet the responsibilities of their role are encouraged to move to [emeritus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/guides/contributor/membership.md#emeritus-maintainerapprovertriager). In case of long temporary absences, contributors are encouraged to let maintainers know on the CNCF Slack (e.g. on the #otel-collector-dev channel or privately via DM) and to mark themselves as 'Busy' on Github. In the event that a contributor becomes inactive without prior notice, the maintainers will attempt to contact the contributor via GitHub, the CNCF Slack, or other available communication channels (such as email or through a coworker) to confirm their status.

#### Approvers and maintainers

If the contributor has not replied to maintainer communications after two weeks, they may be removed from the Github review auto-assignment. If the contributor does not respond within a period of two months, they may be moved to emeritus status at the discretion of the maintainers, following a majority vote among the maintainers (possibly excluding the contributor in question).

#### Code Owners

The OpenTelemetry community strives to foster and maintain a high-trust community. As result, rules below are more discretionary than strictly procedural.

It's highly encouraged for Code Owners who know they will be unavailable for a prolonged period of time (1+ months) to inform other Code Owners for their components in advance. If a Code Owner expects they may be unavailable for a long, undetermined period of time, they should consider moving themselves to emeritus status, and may request to be made active again once they can devote time to maintaining the component.

If a Code Owner has not replied to communications from a maintainer or another Code Owner after two weeks, they may be moved to emeritus status following the majority vote of other Code Owners and with the agreement of a maintainer. If a majority cannot be reached because of unresponsive Code Owners, the active Code Owners can move the unresponsive Code Owners to emeritus status after a 6 week period with no reply, following a majority vote of known-active Code Owners and the agreement of a maintainer.

If a component is seen as at risk of being unmaintained by maintainers, the maintainers may reach out to Code Owners to ensure they are still active. If none of a component's Code Owners respond to communication after a two week period, maintainers may add a new Code Owner to the component at their discretion. Similar to the policy in the preceding paragraph, the unresponsive Code Owners may be removed if a response has not been received after an additional four weeks. This is to ensure the ongoing maintenance of components within the repository.

Following the steps outlined in the documentation for the [unmaintained stability status](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#unmaintained), if no code owners are responsive for the documented period of time and there is not another contributor available to become a Code Owner, the component may be marked as unmaintained. In this situation, all existing code owners will be moved to emeritus status and the component will be open for new Code Owners.

Code Owners who are moved to emeritus status without their direct involvement are welcome to request to be moved back to an active status.

## Makefile Guidelines

When adding or modifying the `Makefile`'s in this repository, consider the following design guidelines.

Make targets are organized according to whether they apply to the entire repository, or only to an individual module.
The [Makefile](./Makefile) SHOULD contain "repo-level" targets. (i.e. targets that apply to the entire repo.)
Likewise, `Makefile.Common` SHOULD contain "module-level" targets. (i.e. targets that apply to one module at a time.)
Each module should have a `Makefile` at its root that includes `Makefile.Common`.

### Module-level targets

Module-level targets SHOULD NOT act on nested modules. For example, running `make lint` at the root of the repo will
*only* evaluate code that is part of the `go.opentelemetry.io/collector` module. This excludes nested modules such as
`go.opentelemetry.io/collector/component`.

Each module-level target SHOULD have a corresponding repo-level target. For example, `make golint` will run `make lint`
in each module. In this way, the entire repository is covered. The root `Makefile` contains some "for each module" targets
that can wrap a module-level target into a repo-level target.

### Repo-level targets

Whenever reasonable, targets SHOULD be implemented as module-level targets (and wrapped with a repo-level target).
However, there are many valid justifications for implementing a standalone repo-level target.

1. The target naturally applies to the repo as a whole. (e.g. Building the collector.)
2. Interaction between modules would be problematic.
3. A necessary tool does not provide a mechanism for scoping its application. (e.g. `porto` cannot be limited to a specific module.)
4. The "for each module" pattern would result in incomplete coverage of the codebase. (e.g. A target that scans all file, not just `.go` files.)

### Default targets

The default module-level target (i.e. running `make` in the context of an individual module), should run a substantial set of module-level
targets for an individual module. Ideally, this would include *all* module-level targets, but exceptions should be made if a particular
target would result in unacceptable latency in the local development loop.

The default repo-level target (i.e. running `make` at the root of the repo) should meaningfully validate the entire repo. This should include
running the default common target for each module as well as additional repo-level targets.
