connector/signaltometricsconnector/README.md, before:

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
# Signal to Metrics Connector

Signal to metrics connector produces metrics from all signal types (traces, logs, or metrics).

| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aconnector%2Fsignaltometrics%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aconnector%2Fsignaltometrics) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aconnector%2Fsignaltometrics%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aconnector%2Fsignaltometrics) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=connector_signal_to_metrics)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=connector_signal_to_metrics&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@ChrsMark](https://www.github.com/ChrsMark), [@lahsivjar](https://www.github.com/lahsivjar) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib

## Supported Pipeline Types

| [Exporter Pipeline Type] | [Receiver Pipeline Type] | [Stability Level] |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------ | ----------------- |
| traces | metrics | [alpha] |
| logs | metrics | [alpha] |
| metrics | metrics | [alpha] |
| profiles | metrics | [alpha] |

[Exporter Pipeline Type]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/connector/README.md#exporter-pipeline-type
[Receiver Pipeline Type]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/connector/README.md#receiver-pipeline-type
[Stability Level]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#stability-levels
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Configuration

The component can produce metrics from spans, datapoints (for metrics), and logs.
At least one of the metrics for one signal type MUST be specified correctly for
the component to work.

All signal types can be configured to produce metrics with the same configuration
structure. For example, the below configuration will produce delta temporality counters
for counting number of events for each of the configured signals:

```yaml
signal_to_metrics:
  spans:
    - name: span.count
      description: Count of spans
      sum:
        value: Int(AdjustedCount()) # Count of total spans represented by each span
  datapoints:
    - name: datapoint.count
      description: Count of datapoints
      sum:
        value: "1" # increment by 1 for each datapoint
  logs:
    - name: logrecord.count
      description: Count of log records
      sum:
        value: "1" # increment by 1 for each log record
  profiles:
    - name: profile.count
      description: Count of profiles
      sum:
        value: "1" # increment by 1 for each profile
```

### Metrics types

`signal_to_metrics` produces a variety of metric types by utilizing [OTTL](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/pkg/ottl/README.md)
to extract the relevant data for a metric type from the incoming data. The
component can produce the following metric types for each signal type:

- [Sum](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#sums)
- [Gauge](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#gauge)
- [Histogram](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#histogram)
- [Exponential Histogram](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#exponentialhistogram)

The component does NOT perform any stateful or time based aggregations. The metric
types are aggregated for the payload sent in each `Consume*` call. The final metric
is then sent forward in the pipeline.

#### Sum

Sum metrics have the following configurations:

```yaml
sum:
  value: <ottl_value_expression>
```

- [**Required**] `value` represents an OTTL expression to extract a value from the
  incoming data. Only OTTL expressions that return a value are accepted. The
  returned value determines the value type of the `sum` metric (`int` or `double`).
  [OTTL converters](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#readme-converters)
  can be used to transform the data.

#### Gauge

Gauge metrics aggregate the last value of a signal and have the following configuration:

```yaml
gauge:
  value: <ottl_value_expression>
```

- [**Required**] `value`represents an OTTL expression to extract a numeric value from 
  the signal. Only OTTL expressions that return a value are accepted. The returned 
  value determines the value type of the `gauge` metric (`int` or `double`).
  - For logs: Use e.g. `ExtractGrokPatterns` with a single key selector (see below). 
  - For other signals: Use a field such as `value_int`, `value_double`, or a valid OTTL expression.

**Examples:**

_Logs (with Grok pattern):_
```yaml
signal_to_metrics:
  logs:
    - name: logs.memory_mb
      description: Extract memory_mb from log records
      gauge:
        value: ExtractGrokPatterns(body, "Memory usage %{NUMBER:memory_mb:int}MB")["memory_mb"]
```

_Traces:_
```yaml
signal_to_metrics:
  spans:
    - name: span.duration.gauge
      description: Span duration as gauge
      gauge:
        value: Int(Seconds(end_time - start_time))
```

#### Histogram

Histogram metrics have the following configurations:

```yaml
histogram:
  buckets: []float64
  count: <ottl_value_expression>
  value: <ottl_value_expression>
```

- [**Optional**] `buckets` represents the buckets to be used for the histogram.
  If no buckets are configured then it defaults to:

  ```go
  []float64{2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 50, 100, 200, 400, 800, 1000, 1400, 2000, 5000, 10_000, 15_000}
  ```

- [**Optional**] `count` represents an OTTL expression to extract the count to be
  recorded in the histogram from the incoming data. If no expression is provided
  then it defaults to the count of the signal. [OTTL converters](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#readme-converters)
  can be used to transform the data. For spans, a special converter [adjusted count](#custom-ottl-functions),
  is provided to help calculate the span's [adjusted count](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/trace/tracestate-probability-sampling-experimental/#adjusted-count).
- [**Required**] `value` represents an OTTL expression to extract the value to be
  recorded in the histogram from the incoming data. [OTTL converters](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#readme-converters)
  can be used to transform the data.

#### Exponential Histogram

Exponential histogram metrics have the following configurations:

```yaml
exponential_histogram:
  max_size: <int64>
  count: <ottl_value_expression>
  value: <ottl_value_expression>
```

- [**Optional**] `max_size` represents the maximum number of buckets per positive
  or negative number range. Defaults to `160`.
- [**Optional**] `count` represents an OTTL expression to extract the count to be
  recorded in the exponential histogram from the incoming data. If no expression
  is provided then it defaults to the count of the signal. [OTTL converters](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#readme-converters)
  can be used to transform the data. For spans, a special converter [adjusted count](#custom-ottl-functions),
  is provided to help calculate the span's [adjusted count](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/trace/tracestate-probability-sampling-experimental/#adjusted-count).
- [**Required**] `value` represents an OTTL expression to extract the value to be
  recorded in the exponential histogram from the incoming data. [OTTL converters](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#readme-converters)
  can be used to transform the data.

### Attributes

The component can produce metrics categorized by the attributes (span attributes
for traces, datapoint attributes for datapoints, or log record attributes for logs)
from the incoming data by configuring `attributes` for the configured metrics.

If no `attributes` are configured then the metrics are produced without any attributes.

```yaml
attributes:
  - key: datapoint.foo
  - key: datapoint.bar
    default_value: bar
  - key: datapoint.baz
    optional: true
```

If attributes are specified then a separate metric will be generated for each unique
set of attribute values. There are three behaviors that can be configured for an
attribute:

- Without any extra parameters: `datapoint.foo` in the above yaml is an example
  of such configuration. In this configuration, only the signals which have the said
  attribute are processed with the attribute's value as one of the attributes for
  the output metric. If the attribute is missing then the signal is not processed.
- With `default_value`: `datapoint.bar` in the above yaml is an example of such
  configuration. In this configuration all the signals are processed irrespective
  of the attribute being present or not in the input signal. The output metric
  is categorized as per the incoming value of the attribute and an extra bucket
  exists with the attribute set to the configured default value for all the signals
  that were missing the configured attribute.
- With `optional` set to `true`: `datapoint.baz` in the above yaml is an example
  of such configuration. If the attribute is configured with `optional` and present
  in the incoming signal then it will be added directly to the output metric. If
  it is absent then a new metric with missing attributes will be created. In addition,
  the `optional` attribute will not impact the decision i.e. even if the `optional`
  attributes are not present in the incoming signal, the signal will be processed
  and will produce a metric given all other non-optional attributes are present
  or have a default value defined.

Note that resource attributes are handled differently, check the resource attributes
section for more details on this. Think of `attributes` as conditional filters for
choosing which attributes should be included in the output metric whereas
`include_resource_attributes` is an include list for customizing resource attributes
of the output metric.

### Conditions

Conditions are an optional list of OTTL conditions that are evaluated on the incoming
data and are ORed together. For example:

```yaml
signal_to_metrics:
  datapoints:
    - name: datapoint.bar.sum
      description: Count total number of datapoints as per datapoint.bar attribute
      conditions:
        - resource.attributes["foo"] != nil
        - resource.attributes["bar"] != nil
      sum:
        value: "1"
```

The above configuration will produce sum metrics from datapoints with either `foo`
OR `bar` resource attribute defined.

Conditions can also be ANDed together, for example:

```yaml
signal_to_metrics:
  datapoints:
    - name: gauge.to.exphistogram
      conditions:
        - metric.type == 1 AND resource.attributes["resource.foo"] != nil
      exponential_histogram:
        count: "1" # 1 count for each datapoint
        value: Double(value_int) + value_double # handle both int and double
```

The above configuration produces exponential histogram from gauge metrics with resource
attributes `resource.foo` set.

### Customizing resource attributes

The component allows customizing the resource attributes for the produced metrics
by specifying a list of attributes that should be included in the final metrics.
If no attributes are specified for `include_resource_attributes` then no filtering
is performed i.e. all resource attributes of the incoming data is considered.

```yaml
include_resource_attributes:
  - key: resource.foo # Include resource.foo attribute if present
  - key: resource.bar # Always include resource.bar attribute, default to bar
    default_value: bar
  - key: resource.baz # Optional resource.baz attribute is added if present
    optional: true
```

With the above configuration the produced metrics would have the following
resource attributes:

- `resource.foo` will be present for the produced metrics if the incoming data also
  has the attribute defined. If the attribute is missing in the incoming data the
  output metric will be produced without the said attribute.
- `resource.bar` will always be present because of the `default_value`. If the incoming
  data does not have a resource attribute with name `resource.bar` then the configured
  `default_value` of `bar` will be used.
- `resource.baz` will behave exactly same as `resource.foo`. Since resource attributes
  are basically an include list, the `optional` option is a no-op i.e. the resource
  attributes with `optional` set to `true` behaves identical to an attribute configured
  without `default_value` or `optional`.

### Single writer

Metrics data streams MUST obey [single-writer](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#single-writer)
principle. However, since `signal_to_metrics` component produces metrics from all signal
types and also allows customizing the resource attributes, there is a possibility
of violating the single-writer principle. To keep the single-writer principle intact,
the component adds collector instance information as resource attributes. The following
resource attribute is added to each produced metric:

```yaml
signal_to_metrics.service.instance.id: <service_instance_id_of_the_otel_collector>
```

### Custom OTTL functions

The component implements the following custom OTTL functions:

1. `AdjustedCount`: a converter capable of calculating [adjusted count for a span](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/blob/main/text/trace/0235-sampling-threshold-in-trace-state.md).

Commit message:

[signaltometricsconnector] Add error_mode configuration to handle OTTL evaluation errors (#46005)
Fixes
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/45746

This change adds an error_mode configuration option to the
signaltometrics connector to control how OTTL evaluation errors are
handled. Previously, a single bad record would cause the entire batch to
fail and be dropped.

Changes:
- Add error_mode field to Config with three modes: propagate, ignore,
silent
- propagate (default): Returns error, entire batch fails (backward
compatible)
- ignore: Logs error, skips bad record, continues processing valid
records
- silent: Skips bad record silently, continues processing valid records
- Update aggregator to handle errors based on configured error_mode
- Add comprehensive tests for all three error modes
- Update README with error handling documentation

connector/signaltometricsconnector/README.md, after:

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
# Signal to Metrics Connector

Signal to metrics connector produces metrics from all signal types (traces, logs, or metrics).

| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Aconnector%2Fsignaltometrics%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Aconnector%2Fsignaltometrics) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Aconnector%2Fsignaltometrics%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Aconnector%2Fsignaltometrics) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=connector_signal_to_metrics)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=connector_signal_to_metrics&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@ChrsMark](https://www.github.com/ChrsMark), [@lahsivjar](https://www.github.com/lahsivjar) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib

## Supported Pipeline Types

| [Exporter Pipeline Type] | [Receiver Pipeline Type] | [Stability Level] |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------ | ----------------- |
| traces | metrics | [alpha] |
| logs | metrics | [alpha] |
| metrics | metrics | [alpha] |
| profiles | metrics | [alpha] |

[Exporter Pipeline Type]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/connector/README.md#exporter-pipeline-type
[Receiver Pipeline Type]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/connector/README.md#receiver-pipeline-type
[Stability Level]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#stability-levels
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

## Configuration

The component can produce metrics from spans, datapoints (for metrics), and logs.
At least one of the metrics for one signal type MUST be specified correctly for
the component to work.

All signal types can be configured to produce metrics with the same configuration
structure. For example, the below configuration will produce delta temporality counters
for counting number of events for each of the configured signals:

```yaml
signal_to_metrics:
  spans:
    - name: span.count
      description: Count of spans
      sum:
        value: Int(AdjustedCount()) # Count of total spans represented by each span
  datapoints:
    - name: datapoint.count
      description: Count of datapoints
      sum:
        value: "1" # increment by 1 for each datapoint
  logs:
    - name: logrecord.count
      description: Count of log records
      sum:
        value: "1" # increment by 1 for each log record
  profiles:
    - name: profile.count
      description: Count of profiles
      sum:
        value: "1" # increment by 1 for each profile
```

### Error Handling

The `error_mode` configuration option determines how the connector handles errors that occur while processing OTTL expressions:

- `error_mode` (optional): Determines how errors returned from OTTL expressions are handled. Valid values are `propagate`, `ignore`, and `silent`.
  - `propagate` (default): Errors cause the entire batch to fail and be returned up the pipeline. This will result in the payload being dropped from the collector.
  - `ignore`: Errors are logged and the specific record that caused the error is skipped, but processing continues for the rest of the batch.
  - `silent`: Errors are not logged and the specific record that caused the error is skipped, but processing continues for the rest of the batch.

**Example with error handling:**

```yaml
signaltometrics:
  error_mode: ignore  # Log errors but continue processing other records
  spans:
    - name: span.count
      description: Count of spans
      sum:
        value: Int(AdjustedCount())
```

### Metrics types

`signal_to_metrics` produces a variety of metric types by utilizing [OTTL](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/pkg/ottl/README.md)
to extract the relevant data for a metric type from the incoming data. The
component can produce the following metric types for each signal type:

- [Sum](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#sums)
- [Gauge](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#gauge)
- [Histogram](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#histogram)
- [Exponential Histogram](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#exponentialhistogram)

The component does NOT perform any stateful or time based aggregations. The metric
types are aggregated for the payload sent in each `Consume*` call. The final metric
is then sent forward in the pipeline.

#### Sum

Sum metrics have the following configurations:

```yaml
sum:
  value: <ottl_value_expression>
```

- [**Required**] `value` represents an OTTL expression to extract a value from the
  incoming data. Only OTTL expressions that return a value are accepted. The
  returned value determines the value type of the `sum` metric (`int` or `double`).
  [OTTL converters](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#readme-converters)
  can be used to transform the data.

#### Gauge

Gauge metrics aggregate the last value of a signal and have the following configuration:

```yaml
gauge:
  value: <ottl_value_expression>
```

- [**Required**] `value`represents an OTTL expression to extract a numeric value from 
  the signal. Only OTTL expressions that return a value are accepted. The returned 
  value determines the value type of the `gauge` metric (`int` or `double`).
  - For logs: Use e.g. `ExtractGrokPatterns` with a single key selector (see below). 
  - For other signals: Use a field such as `value_int`, `value_double`, or a valid OTTL expression.

**Examples:**

_Logs (with Grok pattern):_
```yaml
signal_to_metrics:
  logs:
    - name: logs.memory_mb
      description: Extract memory_mb from log records
      gauge:
        value: ExtractGrokPatterns(body, "Memory usage %{NUMBER:memory_mb:int}MB")["memory_mb"]
```

_Traces:_
```yaml
signal_to_metrics:
  spans:
    - name: span.duration.gauge
      description: Span duration as gauge
      gauge:
        value: Int(Seconds(end_time - start_time))
```

#### Histogram

Histogram metrics have the following configurations:

```yaml
histogram:
  buckets: []float64
  count: <ottl_value_expression>
  value: <ottl_value_expression>
```

- [**Optional**] `buckets` represents the buckets to be used for the histogram.
  If no buckets are configured then it defaults to:

  ```go
  []float64{2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 50, 100, 200, 400, 800, 1000, 1400, 2000, 5000, 10_000, 15_000}
  ```

- [**Optional**] `count` represents an OTTL expression to extract the count to be
  recorded in the histogram from the incoming data. If no expression is provided
  then it defaults to the count of the signal. [OTTL converters](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#readme-converters)
  can be used to transform the data. For spans, a special converter [adjusted count](#custom-ottl-functions),
  is provided to help calculate the span's [adjusted count](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/trace/tracestate-probability-sampling-experimental/#adjusted-count).
- [**Required**] `value` represents an OTTL expression to extract the value to be
  recorded in the histogram from the incoming data. [OTTL converters](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#readme-converters)
  can be used to transform the data.

#### Exponential Histogram

Exponential histogram metrics have the following configurations:

```yaml
exponential_histogram:
  max_size: <int64>
  count: <ottl_value_expression>
  value: <ottl_value_expression>
```

- [**Optional**] `max_size` represents the maximum number of buckets per positive
  or negative number range. Defaults to `160`.
- [**Optional**] `count` represents an OTTL expression to extract the count to be
  recorded in the exponential histogram from the incoming data. If no expression
  is provided then it defaults to the count of the signal. [OTTL converters](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#readme-converters)
  can be used to transform the data. For spans, a special converter [adjusted count](#custom-ottl-functions),
  is provided to help calculate the span's [adjusted count](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/trace/tracestate-probability-sampling-experimental/#adjusted-count).
- [**Required**] `value` represents an OTTL expression to extract the value to be
  recorded in the exponential histogram from the incoming data. [OTTL converters](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pkg/ottl/ottlfuncs#readme-converters)
  can be used to transform the data.

### Attributes

The component can produce metrics categorized by the attributes (span attributes
for traces, datapoint attributes for datapoints, or log record attributes for logs)
from the incoming data by configuring `attributes` for the configured metrics.

If no `attributes` are configured then the metrics are produced without any attributes.

```yaml
attributes:
  - key: datapoint.foo
  - key: datapoint.bar
    default_value: bar
  - key: datapoint.baz
    optional: true
```

If attributes are specified then a separate metric will be generated for each unique
set of attribute values. There are three behaviors that can be configured for an
attribute:

- Without any extra parameters: `datapoint.foo` in the above yaml is an example
  of such configuration. In this configuration, only the signals which have the said
  attribute are processed with the attribute's value as one of the attributes for
  the output metric. If the attribute is missing then the signal is not processed.
- With `default_value`: `datapoint.bar` in the above yaml is an example of such
  configuration. In this configuration all the signals are processed irrespective
  of the attribute being present or not in the input signal. The output metric
  is categorized as per the incoming value of the attribute and an extra bucket
  exists with the attribute set to the configured default value for all the signals
  that were missing the configured attribute.
- With `optional` set to `true`: `datapoint.baz` in the above yaml is an example
  of such configuration. If the attribute is configured with `optional` and present
  in the incoming signal then it will be added directly to the output metric. If
  it is absent then a new metric with missing attributes will be created. In addition,
  the `optional` attribute will not impact the decision i.e. even if the `optional`
  attributes are not present in the incoming signal, the signal will be processed
  and will produce a metric given all other non-optional attributes are present
  or have a default value defined.

Note that resource attributes are handled differently, check the resource attributes
section for more details on this. Think of `attributes` as conditional filters for
choosing which attributes should be included in the output metric whereas
`include_resource_attributes` is an include list for customizing resource attributes
of the output metric.

### Conditions

Conditions are an optional list of OTTL conditions that are evaluated on the incoming
data and are ORed together. For example:

```yaml
signal_to_metrics:
  datapoints:
    - name: datapoint.bar.sum
      description: Count total number of datapoints as per datapoint.bar attribute
      conditions:
        - resource.attributes["foo"] != nil
        - resource.attributes["bar"] != nil
      sum:
        value: "1"
```

The above configuration will produce sum metrics from datapoints with either `foo`
OR `bar` resource attribute defined.

Conditions can also be ANDed together, for example:

```yaml
signal_to_metrics:
  datapoints:
    - name: gauge.to.exphistogram
      conditions:
        - metric.type == 1 AND resource.attributes["resource.foo"] != nil
      exponential_histogram:
        count: "1" # 1 count for each datapoint
        value: Double(value_int) + value_double # handle both int and double
```

The above configuration produces exponential histogram from gauge metrics with resource
attributes `resource.foo` set.

### Customizing resource attributes

The component allows customizing the resource attributes for the produced metrics
by specifying a list of attributes that should be included in the final metrics.
If no attributes are specified for `include_resource_attributes` then no filtering
is performed i.e. all resource attributes of the incoming data is considered.

```yaml
include_resource_attributes:
  - key: resource.foo # Include resource.foo attribute if present
  - key: resource.bar # Always include resource.bar attribute, default to bar
    default_value: bar
  - key: resource.baz # Optional resource.baz attribute is added if present
    optional: true
```

With the above configuration the produced metrics would have the following
resource attributes:

- `resource.foo` will be present for the produced metrics if the incoming data also
  has the attribute defined. If the attribute is missing in the incoming data the
  output metric will be produced without the said attribute.
- `resource.bar` will always be present because of the `default_value`. If the incoming
  data does not have a resource attribute with name `resource.bar` then the configured
  `default_value` of `bar` will be used.
- `resource.baz` will behave exactly same as `resource.foo`. Since resource attributes
  are basically an include list, the `optional` option is a no-op i.e. the resource
  attributes with `optional` set to `true` behaves identical to an attribute configured
  without `default_value` or `optional`.

### Single writer

Metrics data streams MUST obey [single-writer](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#single-writer)
principle. However, since `signal_to_metrics` component produces metrics from all signal
types and also allows customizing the resource attributes, there is a possibility
of violating the single-writer principle. To keep the single-writer principle intact,
the component adds collector instance information as resource attributes. The following
resource attribute is added to each produced metric:

```yaml
signal_to_metrics.service.instance.id: <service_instance_id_of_the_otel_collector>
```

### Custom OTTL functions

The component implements the following custom OTTL functions:

1. `AdjustedCount`: a converter capable of calculating [adjusted count for a span](https://github.com/open-telemetry/oteps/blob/main/text/trace/0235-sampling-threshold-in-trace-state.md).
