receiver/wavefrontreceiver/README.md, before:

# Wavefront Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fwavefront%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fwavefront) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fwavefront%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fwavefront) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=receiver_wavefront)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=receiver_wavefront&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@samiura](https://www.github.com/samiura) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

The Wavefront receiver accepts metrics and depends on [carbonreceiver proto
and
transport](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/carbonreceiver),
It's very similar to Carbon: it is TCP based in which each received text line
represents a single metric data point. They differ on the format of their
textual representation. The Wavefront receiver leverages the Carbon receiver
code by implementing a dedicated parser for its format.

The receiver receives the string with Wavefront metric data, and transforms
it to the collector metric format. See
[https://docs.wavefront.com/wavefront_data_format.html#metrics-data-format-syntax.](https://docs.wavefront.com/wavefront_data_format.html#metrics-data-format-syntax)
Each line received represents a Wavefront metric in the following format:


```<metricName> <metricValue> [<timestamp>] source=<source> [pointTags]```

> :information_source: The `wavefront` receiver is based on Carbon and binds to the
same port by default. This means the `carbon` and `wavefront` receivers
cannot both be enabled with their respective default configurations. To
support running both receivers in parallel, change the `endpoint` port on one
of the receivers.

## Configuration

The following settings are required:

- `endpoint` (default = `0.0.0.0:2003`): Address and port that the
  receiver should bind to.

The following setting are optional:

- `extract_collectd_tags` (default = `false`): Instructs the Wavefront
  receiver to attempt to extract tags in the CollectD format from the
  metric name.
- `tcp_idle_timeout` (default = `30s`): The maximum duration that a tcp
  connection will idle wait for new data.

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  wavefront:
  wavefront/allsettings:
    endpoint: localhost:8080
    tcp_idle_timeout: 5s
    extract_collectd_tags: true
```

The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented in [config.go](./config.go)
with detailed sample configurations in [testdata/config.yaml](./testdata/config.yaml).

Commit message:

[receiver/wavefront] deprecate wavefront receiver (#46087)
<!--Ex. Fixing a bug - Describe the bug and how this fixes the issue.
Ex. Adding a feature - Explain what this achieves.-->
#### Description
Deprecate the wavefront receiver. There is no replacement, as Wavefront
itself is now EOL. See announcement:
https://support.broadcom.com/web/ecx/support-content-notification/-/external/content/release-announcements/0/25153

Fixes #45806

receiver/wavefrontreceiver/README.md, after:

# Wavefront Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [deprecated]: metrics   |
| Deprecation of metrics | [Date]: 2026-02-13   |
|                      | [Migration Note]: There is no replacement. This component will be removed in a future release.   |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fwavefront%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fwavefront) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fwavefront%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fwavefront) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=receiver_wavefront)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=receiver_wavefront&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@samiura](https://www.github.com/samiura) |

[deprecated]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#deprecated
[Date]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#deprecation-information
[Migration Note]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#deprecation-information
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

The Wavefront receiver accepts metrics and depends on [carbonreceiver proto
and
transport](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/carbonreceiver),
It's very similar to Carbon: it is TCP based in which each received text line
represents a single metric data point. They differ on the format of their
textual representation. The Wavefront receiver leverages the Carbon receiver
code by implementing a dedicated parser for its format.

The receiver receives the string with Wavefront metric data, and transforms
it to the collector metric format. See
[https://docs.wavefront.com/wavefront_data_format.html#metrics-data-format-syntax.](https://docs.wavefront.com/wavefront_data_format.html#metrics-data-format-syntax)
Each line received represents a Wavefront metric in the following format:


```<metricName> <metricValue> [<timestamp>] source=<source> [pointTags]```

> :information_source: The `wavefront` receiver is based on Carbon and binds to the
same port by default. This means the `carbon` and `wavefront` receivers
cannot both be enabled with their respective default configurations. To
support running both receivers in parallel, change the `endpoint` port on one
of the receivers.

## Configuration

The following settings are required:

- `endpoint` (default = `0.0.0.0:2003`): Address and port that the
  receiver should bind to.

The following setting are optional:

- `extract_collectd_tags` (default = `false`): Instructs the Wavefront
  receiver to attempt to extract tags in the CollectD format from the
  metric name.
- `tcp_idle_timeout` (default = `30s`): The maximum duration that a tcp
  connection will idle wait for new data.

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  wavefront:
  wavefront/allsettings:
    endpoint: localhost:8080
    tcp_idle_timeout: 5s
    extract_collectd_tags: true
```

The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented in [config.go](./config.go)
with detailed sample configurations in [testdata/config.yaml](./testdata/config.yaml).
