receiver/fluentforwardreceiver/README.md, before:

# Fluent Forward Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [k8s] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Ffluentforward%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Ffluentforward) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Ffluentforward%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Ffluentforward) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=receiver_fluentforward)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=receiver_fluentforward&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@dmitryax](https://www.github.com/dmitryax) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[k8s]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-k8s
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver runs a TCP server that accepts events via the [Fluent Forward
protocol](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/wiki/Forward-Protocol-Specification-v1).

This receiver:

 - Does **not** support TLS or the handshake portion of the Forward protocol.
 - Does support acknowledgments of events that have the `chunk` option, as per the spec.
 - Supports all three event types (message, forward, packed forward, including
   compressed packed forward)
 - Supports listening on a Unix domain socket by making the `listenAddress`
   option of the form `unix://<path to socket>`.
 - If using TCP, it will start a UDP server on the same port to deliver
   heartbeat echos, as per the spec.

Here is a basic example config that makes the receiver listen on all interfaces
on port 8006:

```yaml
receivers:
  fluentforward:
    endpoint: 0.0.0.0:8006
```


## Development

If you are working on this receiver and need to regenerate any of the message
pack autogenerated code, just run `go generate` on this package and its
subpackages.  You can get the `msgp` binary by just running `go get -u -t
github.com/tinylib/msgp`, and make sure the Go binary path is on your shell's
PATH.

Commit message:

[fix][receiver/fluentforward]: handle int overflow in conversion (#45252)
### receiver/fluentforward

#### Description

I expect this to be more of an edge case but when uint64 values are
received at the FluentD receiver, they are converted to pcommon.Value
using `SetInt(int64(val))`. This will result in values greater than
int64 max to overflow into negative values. This seems to be the
intended behaviour as there was already a test that asserted this.

This PR changes this behaviour by falling back to representing these
values in String format instead, only when they are too large to be
stored correctly as int64. For timestamps an error is thrown, but this
will only happen in a very distant future as these values are in seconds
since epoch.

#### Testing

Adjusted already existing test for max uint64 to assert the result to be
a string representing the actual value instead of the overflowing value
`-1`.

#### Documentation

I also added documentation about the entire conversion process for
future reference.

---------

Co-authored-by: Dónal O'Sullivan <92297851+osullivandonal@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Antoine Toulme <atoulme@splunk.com>

receiver/fluentforwardreceiver/README.md, after:

# Fluent Forward Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [beta]: logs   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [k8s] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Ffluentforward%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Ffluentforward) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Ffluentforward%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Ffluentforward) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=receiver_fluentforward)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=receiver_fluentforward&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@dmitryax](https://www.github.com/dmitryax) |

[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[k8s]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-k8s
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

This receiver runs a TCP server that accepts events via the [Fluent Forward
protocol](https://github.com/fluent/fluentd/wiki/Forward-Protocol-Specification-v1).

This receiver:

 - Does **not** support TLS or the handshake portion of the Forward protocol.
 - Does support acknowledgments of events that have the `chunk` option, as per the spec.
 - Supports all three event types (message, forward, packed forward, including
   compressed packed forward)
 - Supports listening on a Unix domain socket by making the `listenAddress`
   option of the form `unix://<path to socket>`.
 - If using TCP, it will start a UDP server on the same port to deliver
   heartbeat echos, as per the spec.

Here is a basic example config that makes the receiver listen on all interfaces
on port 8006:

```yaml
receivers:
  fluentforward:
    endpoint: 0.0.0.0:8006
```

## Data Conversion

The receiver converts Fluentd events to OpenTelemetry logs. Each Fluentd event
is converted to a single OpenTelemetry log record and packets are stored as LogRecordSlice.
The FluentD `tag` is stored as an attribute with key `fluentd.tag`.
The FluentD event timestamp is used as the log record timestamp.
The record `message` or `log` field is stored as the body of the log record. If both are present,
it just takes the field that comes last in the message stream.

Any other fields in the event are stored as attributes on the log record following these rules:

 - `bool` values are stored as boolean attributes
 - `string` values are stored as string attributes
 - `uint64` values are stored as int64 attributes (if value exceeds max int64, stored as string instead)
 - `int64` values are stored as int64 attributes
 - `[]byte` values are converted to strings
 - `map[string]any` values are stored as nested map attributes
 - `[]any` values are stored as array attributes
 - `float32` and `float64` values are stored as double attributes
 - `nil` values are left as empty attributes using `plog.LogRecord.Attributes().PutEmpty(key)`
 - All other types are converted to string representation using `fmt.Sprintf("%v", val)` which includes complex types

## Development

If you are working on this receiver and need to regenerate any of the message
pack autogenerated code, just run `go generate` on this package and its
subpackages.  You can get the `msgp` binary by just running `go get -u -t
github.com/tinylib/msgp`, and make sure the Go binary path is on your shell's
PATH.
