receiver/k8sclusterreceiver/README.md, before:

# Kubernetes Cluster Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [development]: logs   |
|               | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [k8s] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fk8scluster%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fk8scluster) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fk8scluster%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fk8scluster) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=receiver_k8s_cluster)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=receiver_k8s_cluster&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@dmitryax](https://www.github.com/dmitryax), [@TylerHelmuth](https://www.github.com/TylerHelmuth), [@povilasv](https://www.github.com/povilasv), [@ChrsMark](https://www.github.com/ChrsMark) |

[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#development
[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[k8s]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-k8s
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

The Kubernetes Cluster receiver collects cluster-level metrics and entity events from the Kubernetes
API server. It uses the K8s API to listen for updates. A single instance of this
receiver should be used to monitor a cluster.

## Metrics

Details about the metrics produced by this receiver can be found in [metadata.yaml](./metadata.yaml) and [documentation.md](./documentation.md).

## Configuration

The following settings are required:

- `auth_type` (default = `serviceAccount`): Determines how to authenticate to
the K8s API server. This can be one of `none` (for no auth), `serviceAccount`
(to use the standard service account token provided to the agent pod), or
`kubeConfig` to use credentials from `~/.kube/config`.

The following settings are optional:

- `collection_interval` (default = `10s`): This receiver continuously watches
for events using K8s API. However, the metrics collected are emitted only
once every collection interval. `collection_interval` will determine the
frequency at which metrics are emitted by this receiver.
- `metadata_collection_interval` (default = `5m`): Collection interval for metadata
for K8s entities such as pods, nodes, etc.
Metadata of the particular entity in the cluster is collected when the entity changes.
In addition, metadata of all entities is collected periodically even if no changes happen.
This setting controls the interval between periodic collections.
Setting the duration to 0 will disable periodic collection (however will not impact
metadata collection on changes).
- `node_conditions_to_report` (default = `[Ready]`): An array of [node
conditions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#condition)
this receiver should report. The receiver will emit one metric per entry in the array.
- `distribution` (default = `kubernetes`): The Kubernetes distribution being used
by the cluster. Currently supported versions are `kubernetes` and `openshift`. Setting
the value to `openshift` enables OpenShift specific metrics in addition to standard
kubernetes ones.
- `allocatable_types_to_report` (default = `[]`): An array of allocatable resource types this receiver should report.
The following allocatable resource types are available (see Node Allocatable in [Kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/reserve-compute-resources/#node-allocatable)):
  - cpu
  - memory
  - ephemeral-storage
  - pods

When enabled, this setting produces the following node-level metrics (one per selected type):

| allocatable type | metric name                      | unit     | type  | value type |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------- | -------- | ----- | ---------- |
| cpu              | k8s.node.allocatable_cpu         | {cpu}    | Gauge | Double     |
| memory           | k8s.node.allocatable_memory      | By       | Gauge | Double     |
| ephemeral-storage| k8s.node.allocatable_ephemeral_storage | By | Gauge | Double     |
| pods             | k8s.node.allocatable_pods        | {pod}    | Gauge | Int        |

- `metrics`: Allows to enable/disable metrics.
- `resource_attributes`: Allows to enable/disable resource attributes.
- `namespace` (deprecated, use `namespaces` instead): Allows to observe resources for a particular namespace only. If this option is set to a non-empty string, `Nodes`, `Namespaces` and `ClusterResourceQuotas` will not be observed.
- `namespaces`: Allows to observe resources for a list of given namespaces. If this option is set, `Nodes`, `Namespaces` and `ClusterResourceQuotas` will not be observed, as those are cluster-scoped resources.

Example:

```yaml
  k8s_cluster:
    auth_type: kubeConfig
    k8s_leader_elector: <reference k8s leader elector extension>
    node_conditions_to_report: [Ready, MemoryPressure]
    allocatable_types_to_report: [cpu, memory]
    metrics:
      k8s.container.cpu_limit:
        enabled: false
    resource_attributes:
      container.id:
        enabled: false
```

The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented in [config.go](./config.go)
with detailed sample configurations in [testdata/config.yaml](./testdata/config.yaml).

### k8s_leader_elector
Provide name of the k8s leader elector extension defined in config. This allows multiple instances of k8s cluster
receiver to be executed on a cluster. At a given time only the pod which has the is active.

```yaml
    k8s_cluster:
        k8s_leader_elector: k8s_leader_elector
...
```

### node_conditions_to_report

For example, with the config below the receiver will emit two metrics
`k8s.node.condition_ready` and `k8s.node.condition_memory_pressure`, one
for each condition in the config. The value will be `1` if the `ConditionStatus` for the
corresponding `Condition` is `True`, `0` if it is `False` and -1 if it is `Unknown`.

```yaml
...
k8s_cluster:
  node_conditions_to_report:
    - Ready
    - MemoryPressure
...
```


### metadata_exporters

A list of metadata exporters to which metadata being collected by this receiver
should be synced. Exporters specified in this list are expected to implement the
following interface. If an exporter that does not implement the interface is listed,
startup will fail.

```yaml
type MetadataExporter interface {
  ConsumeMetadata(metadata []*MetadataUpdate) error
}

type MetadataUpdate struct {
  ResourceIDKey string
  ResourceID    ResourceID
  MetadataDelta
}

type MetadataDelta struct {
  MetadataToAdd    map[string]string
  MetadataToRemove map[string]string
  MetadataToUpdate map[string]string
}
```

See [experimentalmetricmetadata/metadata.go](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/pkg/experimentalmetricmetadata/metadata.go) for details about the above types.

The same metadata will be also emitted as entity events in the form of log records if
this receiver is connected to a logs pipeline.
See [opentelemetry-collector-contrib#23565](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/23565)
for the format of emitted log records. 

## Compatibility

### Kubernetes Versions

This receiver is tested against the Kubernetes versions specified in the [e2e-tests.yml](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml#L97-L99)
workflow. These tested versions represent the officially supported Kubernetes versions for this component.

## Example

Here is an example deployment of the collector that sets up this receiver along with
the debug exporter.

Follow the below sections to setup various Kubernetes resources required for the deployment.

### Configuration

Create a ConfigMap with the config for `otelcontribcol`:

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
data:
  config.yaml: |
    receivers:
      k8s_cluster:
        collection_interval: 10s
    exporters:
      debug:
    service:
      pipelines:
        metrics:
          receivers: [k8s_cluster]
          exporters: [debug]
        logs/entity_events:
          receivers: [k8s_cluster]
          exporters: [debug]
EOF
```

### Service Account

Create a service account that the collector should use.

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
  name: otelcontribcol
EOF
```

### RBAC

Use the below commands to create a `ClusterRole` with required permissions and a 
`ClusterRoleBinding` to grant the role to the service account created above.

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - events
  - namespaces
  - namespaces/status
  - nodes
  - nodes/spec
  - pods
  - pods/status
  - replicationcontrollers
  - replicationcontrollers/status
  - resourcequotas
  - services
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
  - apps
  resources:
  - daemonsets
  - deployments
  - replicasets
  - statefulsets
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
  - extensions
  resources:
  - daemonsets
  - deployments
  - replicasets
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
  - batch
  resources:
  - jobs
  - cronjobs
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
    - autoscaling
  resources:
    - horizontalpodautoscalers
  verbs:
    - get
    - list
    - watch
EOF
```

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: otelcontribcol
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: otelcontribcol
  namespace: default
EOF
```

As an alternative to setting up a `ClusterRole`/`ClusterRoleBinding`, it is also possible to limit the observed resources to a list of
particular namespaces by setting the `namespaces` option of the receiver. This allows the collector to only rely on `Roles`/`RoleBindings`, 
instead of granting the collector cluster-wide read access to resources.
Note however, that in this case the following resources will not be observed by the `k8sclusterreceiver`:

- `Nodes`
- `Namespaces`
- `ClusterResourceQuotas`

To use this approach, use the commands below to create the required `Role` and `RoleBinding` for each of the namespaces the collector should observe:

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
  namespace: default
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - events
      - pods
      - pods/status
      - replicationcontrollers
      - replicationcontrollers/status
      - resourcequotas
      - services
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - apps
    resources:
      - daemonsets
      - deployments
      - replicasets
      - statefulsets
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - extensions
    resources:
      - daemonsets
      - deployments
      - replicasets
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - batch
    resources:
      - jobs
      - cronjobs
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - autoscaling
    resources:
      - horizontalpodautoscalers
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
EOF
```

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  namespace: default
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: otelcontribcol
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: otelcontribcol
    namespace: default
EOF
```

### Deployment

Create a [Deployment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) to deploy the collector.

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: otelcontribcol
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: otelcontribcol
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: otelcontribcol
      containers:
      - name: otelcontribcol
        image: otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib
        args: ["--config", "/etc/config/config.yaml"]
        volumeMounts:
        - name: config
          mountPath: /etc/config
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
      volumes:
        - name: config
          configMap:
            name: otelcontribcol
EOF
```

### OpenShift

You can enable OpenShift support to collect OpenShift specific metrics in addition to the default
kubernetes ones. To do this, set the `distribution` key to `openshift`.

Example:

```yaml
  k8s_cluster:
    distribution: openshift
```

Add the following rules to your ClusterRole:

```yaml
- apiGroups:
  - quota.openshift.io
  resources:
  - clusterresourcequotas
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
```

Commit message:

[receiver/k8s_cluster] add k8s service metrics (#45621)
<!--Ex. Fixing a bug - Describe the bug and how this fixes the issue.
Ex. Adding a feature - Explain what this achieves.-->
#### Description
PR adds `k8s.service` entity and metrics to monitor endpoint conditions
and loadbalancer ingress provisioning for k8s services.

New Metrics:

- `k8s.service.endpoint.count`: Gauge counting endpoints by condition,
address type (IPv4/IPv6/FQDN), and zone.

- `k8s.service.load_balancer.ingress.count`: Gauge counting provisioned
ingress points for an LB type service

### New Resource Attributes :

- `k8s.service.name` (Enabled)
- `k8s.service.uid` (Enabled)
- `k8s.service.type` (Enabled)
- `k8s.service.traffic_distribution` (Opt-in)
- `k8s.service.publish_not_ready_addresses` (Opt-in)

Entity Metadata: Emits entity events for k8s.service including
`k8s.service.selector.<key>: value`, `k8s.service.label.<key>: value`,
and `k8s.service.annotations.<key>: value`.

<!-- Issue number (e.g. #1234) or full URL to issue, if applicable. -->
#### Link to tracking issue
Fixes -
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/45620

<!--Describe what testing was performed and which tests were added.-->
#### Testing
Added unit tests and updated e2e tests.

<!--Describe the documentation added.-->
#### Documentation
Updated README

<!--Please delete paragraphs that you did not use before submitting.-->

receiver/k8sclusterreceiver/README.md, after:

# Kubernetes Cluster Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [development]: logs   |
|               | [beta]: metrics   |
| Distributions | [contrib], [k8s] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fk8scluster%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fk8scluster) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fk8scluster%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fk8scluster) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=receiver_k8s_cluster)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=receiver_k8s_cluster&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@dmitryax](https://www.github.com/dmitryax), [@TylerHelmuth](https://www.github.com/TylerHelmuth), [@povilasv](https://www.github.com/povilasv), [@ChrsMark](https://www.github.com/ChrsMark) |

[development]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#development
[beta]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
[k8s]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-k8s
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

The Kubernetes Cluster receiver collects cluster-level metrics and entity events from the Kubernetes
API server. It uses the K8s API to listen for updates. A single instance of this
receiver should be used to monitor a cluster.

## Metrics

Details about the metrics produced by this receiver can be found in [metadata.yaml](./metadata.yaml) and [documentation.md](./documentation.md).

### Service Metrics (Disabled by default)

The receiver collects service endpoint metrics (`k8s.service.endpoint.count`) from the `discovery.k8s.io` EndpointSlice API and LoadBalancer ingress metrics (`k8s.service.load_balancer.ingress.count`).

**Note:** Enabling endpoint metrics requires additional RBAC permissions for `endpointslices` in the `discovery.k8s.io` API group. See the [RBAC](#rbac) section for details.

Refer to [documentation.md](./documentation.md) for detailed information on these metrics and their semantics.

## Configuration

The following settings are required:

- `auth_type` (default = `serviceAccount`): Determines how to authenticate to
the K8s API server. This can be one of `none` (for no auth), `serviceAccount`
(to use the standard service account token provided to the agent pod), or
`kubeConfig` to use credentials from `~/.kube/config`.

The following settings are optional:

- `collection_interval` (default = `10s`): This receiver continuously watches
for events using K8s API. However, the metrics collected are emitted only
once every collection interval. `collection_interval` will determine the
frequency at which metrics are emitted by this receiver.
- `metadata_collection_interval` (default = `5m`): Collection interval for metadata
for K8s entities such as pods, nodes, etc.
Metadata of the particular entity in the cluster is collected when the entity changes.
In addition, metadata of all entities is collected periodically even if no changes happen.
This setting controls the interval between periodic collections.
Setting the duration to 0 will disable periodic collection (however will not impact
metadata collection on changes).
- `node_conditions_to_report` (default = `[Ready]`): An array of [node
conditions](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#condition)
this receiver should report. The receiver will emit one metric per entry in the array.
- `distribution` (default = `kubernetes`): The Kubernetes distribution being used
by the cluster. Currently supported versions are `kubernetes` and `openshift`. Setting
the value to `openshift` enables OpenShift specific metrics in addition to standard
kubernetes ones.
- `allocatable_types_to_report` (default = `[]`): An array of allocatable resource types this receiver should report.
The following allocatable resource types are available (see Node Allocatable in [Kubernetes docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/reserve-compute-resources/#node-allocatable)):
  - cpu
  - memory
  - ephemeral-storage
  - pods

When enabled, this setting produces the following node-level metrics (one per selected type):

| allocatable type | metric name                      | unit     | type  | value type |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------- | -------- | ----- | ---------- |
| cpu              | k8s.node.allocatable_cpu         | {cpu}    | Gauge | Double     |
| memory           | k8s.node.allocatable_memory      | By       | Gauge | Double     |
| ephemeral-storage| k8s.node.allocatable_ephemeral_storage | By | Gauge | Double     |
| pods             | k8s.node.allocatable_pods        | {pod}    | Gauge | Int        |

- `metrics`: Allows to enable/disable metrics.
- `resource_attributes`: Allows to enable/disable resource attributes.
- `namespace` (deprecated, use `namespaces` instead): Allows to observe resources for a particular namespace only. If this option is set to a non-empty string, `Nodes`, `Namespaces` and `ClusterResourceQuotas` will not be observed.
- `namespaces`: Allows to observe resources for a list of given namespaces. If this option is set, `Nodes`, `Namespaces` and `ClusterResourceQuotas` will not be observed, as those are cluster-scoped resources.

Example:

```yaml
  k8s_cluster:
    auth_type: kubeConfig
    k8s_leader_elector: <reference k8s leader elector extension>
    node_conditions_to_report: [Ready, MemoryPressure]
    allocatable_types_to_report: [cpu, memory]
    metrics:
      k8s.container.cpu_limit:
        enabled: false
    resource_attributes:
      container.id:
        enabled: false
```

The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented in [config.go](./config.go)
with detailed sample configurations in [testdata/config.yaml](./testdata/config.yaml).

### k8s_leader_elector
Provide name of the k8s leader elector extension defined in config. This allows multiple instances of k8s cluster
receiver to be executed on a cluster. At a given time only the pod which has the is active.

```yaml
    k8s_cluster:
        k8s_leader_elector: k8s_leader_elector
...
```

### node_conditions_to_report

For example, with the config below the receiver will emit two metrics
`k8s.node.condition_ready` and `k8s.node.condition_memory_pressure`, one
for each condition in the config. The value will be `1` if the `ConditionStatus` for the
corresponding `Condition` is `True`, `0` if it is `False` and -1 if it is `Unknown`.

```yaml
...
k8s_cluster:
  node_conditions_to_report:
    - Ready
    - MemoryPressure
...
```


### metadata_exporters

A list of metadata exporters to which metadata being collected by this receiver
should be synced. Exporters specified in this list are expected to implement the
following interface. If an exporter that does not implement the interface is listed,
startup will fail.

```yaml
type MetadataExporter interface {
  ConsumeMetadata(metadata []*MetadataUpdate) error
}

type MetadataUpdate struct {
  ResourceIDKey string
  ResourceID    ResourceID
  MetadataDelta
}

type MetadataDelta struct {
  MetadataToAdd    map[string]string
  MetadataToRemove map[string]string
  MetadataToUpdate map[string]string
}
```

See [experimentalmetricmetadata/metadata.go](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/pkg/experimentalmetricmetadata/metadata.go) for details about the above types.

The same metadata will be also emitted as entity events in the form of log records if
this receiver is connected to a logs pipeline.
See [opentelemetry-collector-contrib#23565](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/23565)
for the format of emitted log records. 

## Compatibility

### Kubernetes Versions

This receiver is tested against the Kubernetes versions specified in the [e2e-tests.yml](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/.github/workflows/e2e-tests.yml#L97-L99)
workflow. These tested versions represent the officially supported Kubernetes versions for this component.

## Example

Here is an example deployment of the collector that sets up this receiver along with
the debug exporter.

Follow the below sections to setup various Kubernetes resources required for the deployment.

### Configuration

Create a ConfigMap with the config for `otelcontribcol`:

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
data:
  config.yaml: |
    receivers:
      k8s_cluster:
        collection_interval: 10s
    exporters:
      debug:
    service:
      pipelines:
        metrics:
          receivers: [k8s_cluster]
          exporters: [debug]
        logs/entity_events:
          receivers: [k8s_cluster]
          exporters: [debug]
EOF
```

### Service Account

Create a service account that the collector should use.

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
  name: otelcontribcol
EOF
```

### RBAC

Use the below commands to create a `ClusterRole` with required permissions and a 
`ClusterRoleBinding` to grant the role to the service account created above.

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - events
  - namespaces
  - namespaces/status
  - nodes
  - nodes/spec
  - pods
  - pods/status
  - replicationcontrollers
  - replicationcontrollers/status
  - resourcequotas
  - services
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
  - discovery.k8s.io
  resources:
  - endpointslices
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
  - apps
  resources:
  - daemonsets
  - deployments
  - replicasets
  - statefulsets
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
  - extensions
  resources:
  - daemonsets
  - deployments
  - replicasets
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
  - batch
  resources:
  - jobs
  - cronjobs
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
- apiGroups:
    - autoscaling
  resources:
    - horizontalpodautoscalers
  verbs:
    - get
    - list
    - watch
EOF
```

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: otelcontribcol
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: otelcontribcol
  namespace: default
EOF
```

As an alternative to setting up a `ClusterRole`/`ClusterRoleBinding`, it is also possible to limit the observed resources to a list of
particular namespaces by setting the `namespaces` option of the receiver. This allows the collector to only rely on `Roles`/`RoleBindings`, 
instead of granting the collector cluster-wide read access to resources.
Note however, that in this case the following resources will not be observed by the `k8sclusterreceiver`:

- `Nodes`
- `Namespaces`
- `ClusterResourceQuotas`

To use this approach, use the commands below to create the required `Role` and `RoleBinding` for each of the namespaces the collector should observe:

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: Role
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
  namespace: default
rules:
  - apiGroups:
      - ""
    resources:
      - events
      - pods
      - pods/status
      - replicationcontrollers
      - replicationcontrollers/status
      - resourcequotas
      - services
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - discovery.k8s.io
    resources:
      - endpointslices
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - apps
    resources:
      - daemonsets
      - deployments
      - replicasets
      - statefulsets
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - extensions
    resources:
      - daemonsets
      - deployments
      - replicasets
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - batch
    resources:
      - jobs
      - cronjobs
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
  - apiGroups:
      - autoscaling
    resources:
      - horizontalpodautoscalers
    verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
EOF
```

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: RoleBinding
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  namespace: default
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: otelcontribcol
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: otelcontribcol
    namespace: default
EOF
```

### Deployment

Create a [Deployment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/) to deploy the collector.

```bash
<<EOF | kubectl apply -f -
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: otelcontribcol
  labels:
    app: otelcontribcol
spec:
  replicas: 1
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: otelcontribcol
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: otelcontribcol
    spec:
      serviceAccountName: otelcontribcol
      containers:
      - name: otelcontribcol
        image: otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib
        args: ["--config", "/etc/config/config.yaml"]
        volumeMounts:
        - name: config
          mountPath: /etc/config
        imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
      volumes:
        - name: config
          configMap:
            name: otelcontribcol
EOF
```

### OpenShift

You can enable OpenShift support to collect OpenShift specific metrics in addition to the default
kubernetes ones. To do this, set the `distribution` key to `openshift`.

Example:

```yaml
  k8s_cluster:
    distribution: openshift
```

Add the following rules to your ClusterRole:

```yaml
- apiGroups:
  - quota.openshift.io
  resources:
  - clusterresourcequotas
  verbs:
  - get
  - list
  - watch
```
