receiver/dockerstatsreceiver/README.md, before:

# Docker Stats Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
| Unsupported Platforms | darwin, windows |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fdockerstats%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fdockerstats) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fdockerstats%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fdockerstats) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=receiver_docker_stats)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=receiver_docker_stats&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@jamesmoessis](https://www.github.com/jamesmoessis) |
| Emeritus      | [@rmfitzpatrick](https://www.github.com/rmfitzpatrick) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

The Docker Stats receiver queries the local Docker daemon's container stats API for
all desired running containers on a configured interval.  These stats are for container
resource usage of cpu, memory, network, and the
[blkio controller](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/cgroup-v1/blkio-controller.txt).

> :information_source: Requires Docker API version 1.25+

## Configuration

The following settings are optional:

- `endpoint` (default = `unix:///var/run/docker.sock` (Linux) , default = `npipe:////./pipe/docker_engine` (Windows) ): Address to reach the desired Docker daemon.
- `collection_interval` (default = `10s`): The interval at which to gather container stats.
- `initial_delay` (default = `1s`): defines how long this receiver waits before starting.
- `container_labels_to_metric_labels` (no default): A map of Docker container label names whose label values to use
as the specified metric label key.
- `env_vars_to_metric_labels` (no default): A map of Docker container environment variables whose values to use
as the specified metric label key.
- `excluded_images` (no default, all running containers monitored): A list of strings,
[regexes](https://golang.org/pkg/regexp/), or [globs](https://github.com/gobwas/glob) whose referent container image
names will not be among the queried containers. `!`-prefixed negations are possible for all item types to signify that
only unmatched container image names should be excluded.
    - Regexes must be placed between `/` characters: `/my?egex/`.  Negations are to be outside the forward slashes:
    `!/my?egex/` will exclude all containers whose name doesn't match the compiled regex `my?egex`.
    - Globs are non-regex items (e.g. `/items/`) containing any of the following: `*[]{}?`.  Negations are supported:
    `!my*container` will exclude all containers whose image name doesn't match the blob `my*container`.
- `timeout` (default = `5s`): The request timeout for any docker daemon query.
- `api_version` (default = `"1.44"`): The Docker client API version (must be 1.25+). Must be input as a string, not a float (e.g. `"1.40"` instead of `1.40`). [Docker API versions](https://docs.docker.com/engine/api/).
- `metrics` (defaults at [./documentation.md](./documentation.md)): Enables/disables individual metrics. See [./documentation.md](./documentation.md) for full detail.

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  docker_stats:
    endpoint: http://example.com/
    collection_interval: 2s
    timeout: 20s
    api_version: "1.25"
    container_labels_to_metric_labels:
      my.container.label: my-metric-label
      my.other.container.label: my-other-metric-label
    env_vars_to_metric_labels:
      MY_ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE: my-metric-label
      MY_OTHER_ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE: my-other-metric-label
    excluded_images:
      - undesired-container
      - /.*undesired.*/
      - another-*-container
    metrics:
      container.cpu.usage.percpu:
        enabled: true
      container.network.io.usage.tx_dropped:
        enabled: false
```

The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented in [config.go](./config.go)
with detailed sample configurations in [testdata/config.yaml](./testdata/config.yaml).

## Docker Socket Permissions

### Requirements

This receiver requires access to the Docker daemon socket to query container statistics. The Docker socket requires specific permissions:

- **Linux** (`/var/run/docker.sock`): Accessible by `root` user or members of the `docker` group
- **Windows** (`npipe:////./pipe/docker_engine`): Requires appropriate named pipe permissions

Since version 0.40.0, official OpenTelemetry Collector images run as a non-root user for security. This creates a permission conflict when accessing the Docker socket.

### Permission Solutions

#### Grant Docker Group Access

On Linux, grant the collector process access to the `docker` group by adding the host's docker group ID as a supplementary group to the container process:

```bash
# Get the docker group ID on your host
getent group docker

# Linux example - Run with docker group (replace 999 with your docker group GID from above)
docker run --group-add 999 \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest
```

**Note:** The `--group-add` flag adds the host's group ID as a supplementary group to the container process. This works because the mounted socket retains the host's group ownership. If you have user namespaces enabled in Docker, additional configuration may be required.

#### Run as Root

If running as root is acceptable for your environment:

```bash
# Linux example
docker run -u 0 -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest
```

**Note:** Running as root is not recommended for production environments.

#### Alternative Approaches

For enhanced security, consider:
- Using a Docker API proxy (e.g. [docker-socket-proxy](https://github.com/Tecnativa/docker-socket-proxy)) that restricts access to only required endpoints
- Running this receiver in an isolated collector instance with elevated privileges that only exports data (does not expose receiver ports like OTLP or Zipkin), forwarding metrics to your main collector via OTLP. This reduces the attack surface and RCE risk on the privileged container.

For more information, see [issue #11791](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/11791).


## Deprecations

### Transition to cpu utilization metric name aligned with OpenTelemetry specification

The Docker Stats receiver has been emitting the following cpu memory metric:

- [container.cpu.percent] for the percentage of CPU used by the container,

This is in conflict with the OpenTelemetry specification,
which defines [container.cpu.utilization] as the name for this metric.

To align the emitted metric names with the OpenTelemetry specification,
the following process will be followed to phase out the old metrics:

- Between `v0.79.0` and `v0.86.0`, the new metric is introduced and the old metric is marked as deprecated.
  Only the old metric are emitted by default.
- In `v0.88.0`, the old metric is disabled and the new one enabled by default.
- In `v0.89.0` and up, the old metric is removed.

To change the enabled state for the specific metrics, use the standard configuration options that are available for all metrics.

Here's an example configuration to disable the old metrics and enable the new metrics:

```yaml
receivers:
  docker_stats:
    metrics:
      container.cpu.percent:
        enabled: false
      container.cpu.utilization:
        enabled: true

```

### Migrating from ScraperV1 to ScraperV2

*Note: These changes are now in effect and ScraperV1 have been removed as of v0.71.*

There are some breaking changes from ScraperV1 to ScraperV2. The work done for these changes is tracked in [#9794](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/9794).

| Breaking Change                     | Action                                                                  |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Many metrics are no longer emitted by default. | See [documentation.md](./documentation.md) to see which metrics are enabled by default. Enable/disable as desired. |
| BlockIO metrics names changed. The type of operation is no longer in the metric name suffix, and is now in an attribute. For example `container.blockio.io_merged_recursive.read` becomes `container.blockio.io_merged_recursive` with an `operation:read` attribute. | Be aware of the metric name changes and make any adjustments to what your downstream expects from BlockIO metrics. |
| Memory metrics measured in Bytes are now [non-monotonic sums](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/data-model.md#opentelemetry-protocol-data-model-consumer-recommendations) instead of gauges. | Most likely there is no action. The aggregation type is different but the values are the same. Be aware of how your downstream handles gauges vs non-monotonic sums. |
| Config option `provide_per_core_cpu_metrics` has been removed. | Enable the `container.cpu.usage.percpu` metric as per [documentation.md](./documentation.md). |

Commit message:

[internal/docker] Autodetect docker api version (#46091)
#### Description

When `api_version` is not specified in config, the Docker client now
uses `WithAPIVersionNegotiation()` to automatically negotiate the
highest mutually supported API version with the daemon. Existing configs
with an explicit `api_version` continue to work unchanged.

#### Link to tracking issue

Fixes
https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/44653

#### Testing

Added unit tests for both auto-negotiation and explicit version paths in
`internal/docker/docker_test.go`. Verified `NewDefaultConfig()` leaves
`DockerAPIVersion` empty. Ran `make lint` and `make test` for
`internal/docker` and `receiver/dockerstatsreceiver`.

#### Documentation

Updated field comments in `Config` struct and `NewDefaultConfig()` to
document auto-negotiation behavior. Added changelog entry.

receiver/dockerstatsreceiver/README.md, after:

# Docker Stats Receiver

<!-- status autogenerated section -->
| Status        |           |
| ------------- |-----------|
| Stability     | [alpha]: metrics   |
| Unsupported Platforms | darwin, windows |
| Distributions | [contrib] |
| Issues        | [![Open issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20label%3Areceiver%2Fdockerstats%20&label=open&color=orange&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fdockerstats) [![Closed issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues-search/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib?query=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aclosed%20label%3Areceiver%2Fdockerstats%20&label=closed&color=blue&logo=opentelemetry)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+is%3Aissue+label%3Areceiver%2Fdockerstats) |
| Code coverage | [![codecov](https://codecov.io/github/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/graph/main/badge.svg?component=receiver_docker_stats)](https://app.codecov.io/gh/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/?components%5B0%5D=receiver_docker_stats&displayType=list) |
| [Code Owners](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#becoming-a-code-owner)    | [@jamesmoessis](https://www.github.com/jamesmoessis) |
| Emeritus      | [@rmfitzpatrick](https://www.github.com/rmfitzpatrick) |

[alpha]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#alpha
[contrib]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib
<!-- end autogenerated section -->

The Docker Stats receiver queries the local Docker daemon's container stats API for
all desired running containers on a configured interval.  These stats are for container
resource usage of cpu, memory, network, and the
[blkio controller](https://www.kernel.org/doc/Documentation/cgroup-v1/blkio-controller.txt).

> :information_source: Requires Docker API version 1.25+

## Configuration

The following settings are optional:

- `endpoint` (default = `unix:///var/run/docker.sock` (Linux) , default = `npipe:////./pipe/docker_engine` (Windows) ): Address to reach the desired Docker daemon.
- `collection_interval` (default = `10s`): The interval at which to gather container stats.
- `initial_delay` (default = `1s`): defines how long this receiver waits before starting.
- `container_labels_to_metric_labels` (no default): A map of Docker container label names whose label values to use
as the specified metric label key.
- `env_vars_to_metric_labels` (no default): A map of Docker container environment variables whose values to use
as the specified metric label key.
- `excluded_images` (no default, all running containers monitored): A list of strings,
[regexes](https://golang.org/pkg/regexp/), or [globs](https://github.com/gobwas/glob) whose referent container image
names will not be among the queried containers. `!`-prefixed negations are possible for all item types to signify that
only unmatched container image names should be excluded.
    - Regexes must be placed between `/` characters: `/my?egex/`.  Negations are to be outside the forward slashes:
    `!/my?egex/` will exclude all containers whose name doesn't match the compiled regex `my?egex`.
    - Globs are non-regex items (e.g. `/items/`) containing any of the following: `*[]{}?`.  Negations are supported:
    `!my*container` will exclude all containers whose image name doesn't match the blob `my*container`.
- `timeout` (default = `5s`): The request timeout for any docker daemon query.
- `api_version` (default = auto-negotiate): The Docker client API version (must be 1.25+). When not specified, the client automatically negotiates the highest mutually supported API version with the Docker daemon. To pin a specific version, set it as a string, not a float (e.g. `"1.44"` instead of `1.44`). [Docker API versions](https://docs.docker.com/engine/api/).
- `metrics` (defaults at [./documentation.md](./documentation.md)): Enables/disables individual metrics. See [./documentation.md](./documentation.md) for full detail.

Example:

```yaml
receivers:
  docker_stats:
    endpoint: http://example.com/
    collection_interval: 2s
    timeout: 20s
    api_version: "1.25"
    container_labels_to_metric_labels:
      my.container.label: my-metric-label
      my.other.container.label: my-other-metric-label
    env_vars_to_metric_labels:
      MY_ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE: my-metric-label
      MY_OTHER_ENVIRONMENT_VARIABLE: my-other-metric-label
    excluded_images:
      - undesired-container
      - /.*undesired.*/
      - another-*-container
    metrics:
      container.cpu.usage.percpu:
        enabled: true
      container.network.io.usage.tx_dropped:
        enabled: false
```

The full list of settings exposed for this receiver are documented in [config.go](./config.go)
with detailed sample configurations in [testdata/config.yaml](./testdata/config.yaml).

## Docker Socket Permissions

### Requirements

This receiver requires access to the Docker daemon socket to query container statistics. The Docker socket requires specific permissions:

- **Linux** (`/var/run/docker.sock`): Accessible by `root` user or members of the `docker` group
- **Windows** (`npipe:////./pipe/docker_engine`): Requires appropriate named pipe permissions

Since version 0.40.0, official OpenTelemetry Collector images run as a non-root user for security. This creates a permission conflict when accessing the Docker socket.

### Permission Solutions

#### Grant Docker Group Access

On Linux, grant the collector process access to the `docker` group by adding the host's docker group ID as a supplementary group to the container process:

```bash
# Get the docker group ID on your host
getent group docker

# Linux example - Run with docker group (replace 999 with your docker group GID from above)
docker run --group-add 999 \
  -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest
```

**Note:** The `--group-add` flag adds the host's group ID as a supplementary group to the container process. This works because the mounted socket retains the host's group ownership. If you have user namespaces enabled in Docker, additional configuration may be required.

#### Run as Root

If running as root is acceptable for your environment:

```bash
# Linux example
docker run -u 0 -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
  otel/opentelemetry-collector-contrib:latest
```

**Note:** Running as root is not recommended for production environments.

#### Alternative Approaches

For enhanced security, consider:
- Using a Docker API proxy (e.g. [docker-socket-proxy](https://github.com/Tecnativa/docker-socket-proxy)) that restricts access to only required endpoints
- Running this receiver in an isolated collector instance with elevated privileges that only exports data (does not expose receiver ports like OTLP or Zipkin), forwarding metrics to your main collector via OTLP. This reduces the attack surface and RCE risk on the privileged container.

For more information, see [issue #11791](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/11791).


## Deprecations

### Transition to cpu utilization metric name aligned with OpenTelemetry specification

The Docker Stats receiver has been emitting the following cpu memory metric:

- [container.cpu.percent] for the percentage of CPU used by the container,

This is in conflict with the OpenTelemetry specification,
which defines [container.cpu.utilization] as the name for this metric.

To align the emitted metric names with the OpenTelemetry specification,
the following process will be followed to phase out the old metrics:

- Between `v0.79.0` and `v0.86.0`, the new metric is introduced and the old metric is marked as deprecated.
  Only the old metric are emitted by default.
- In `v0.88.0`, the old metric is disabled and the new one enabled by default.
- In `v0.89.0` and up, the old metric is removed.

To change the enabled state for the specific metrics, use the standard configuration options that are available for all metrics.

Here's an example configuration to disable the old metrics and enable the new metrics:

```yaml
receivers:
  docker_stats:
    metrics:
      container.cpu.percent:
        enabled: false
      container.cpu.utilization:
        enabled: true

```

### Migrating from ScraperV1 to ScraperV2

*Note: These changes are now in effect and ScraperV1 have been removed as of v0.71.*

There are some breaking changes from ScraperV1 to ScraperV2. The work done for these changes is tracked in [#9794](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/issues/9794).

| Breaking Change                     | Action                                                                  |
|-------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Many metrics are no longer emitted by default. | See [documentation.md](./documentation.md) to see which metrics are enabled by default. Enable/disable as desired. |
| BlockIO metrics names changed. The type of operation is no longer in the metric name suffix, and is now in an attribute. For example `container.blockio.io_merged_recursive.read` becomes `container.blockio.io_merged_recursive` with an `operation:read` attribute. | Be aware of the metric name changes and make any adjustments to what your downstream expects from BlockIO metrics. |
| Memory metrics measured in Bytes are now [non-monotonic sums](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics/data-model.md#opentelemetry-protocol-data-model-consumer-recommendations) instead of gauges. | Most likely there is no action. The aggregation type is different but the values are the same. Be aware of how your downstream handles gauges vs non-monotonic sums. |
| Config option `provide_per_core_cpu_metrics` has been removed. | Enable the `container.cpu.usage.percpu` metric as per [documentation.md](./documentation.md). |
